minutes.md, before:

Minutes of the Technical Standing Committee
===========================================

**2016-02-16** Approved our [priorities](/priorities) and [technical
strategy](/strategy) documents as non-binding statements of TSC guidance.
Approved [vocabularies policy](/policies/vocabularies) as a draft for 
wider comment on tsc-public.

**2016-01-19** Presented our draft [priorities](/priorities), [technical
strategy](/strategy), and [vocabularies policy](/policies/vocabularies)
at the 19 January Board meeting.

**2016-01-07** Produced a short draft document listing [our immediate
priorities](/priorities), and a longer draft [technical strategy
paper](/strategy).

**2015-12-07** Published a draft policy on the [prefered use of
vocabularies](/policies/vocabularies), and amended the [style
guide](/policies/style) to say that "FHISO standards will normally be
made available in both HTML and PDF formats".

**2015-11-27** Noted that the [27 November Board
meeting](/aboutfhiso/fhiso-board/minutes/2015-11-27/), in consultation
with the TSC, recommended: that the TSC should produce a short high-level
strategy paper; that technical work should focus on narrow citations
standards covering vocabularies for textual citation elements and, less
pressingly, describing source derivation; that the TSC should draft
a general policy on the preferred nature of vocabularies, such as the
use of URIs; and that these TSC minutes should be made public.

**2015-11-22** Deployed the new [technical
website](http://tech.fhiso.org/).

**2015-11-21** Thanked the Board for approving the updated [Operations &
Policy Manual](/opm).

**2015-11-20** Proposed some minor modifications to the [Operations &
Policy Manual](/opm) to the Board for approval.

**2015-08-21** Produced the first draft of a [new technical
website](http://tech.fhiso.org/) for the TSC, automatically updating its
content from Github repositories.

**2015-08-17**
[Suggested](/pipermail/sources-citations_fhiso.org/2015-August/000289.html)
to the S&CEG that FHISO's general policy should be to use URIs as
metadata identifiers.

**2015-06-19** Suspended the [CCEG](/egs#core) in order to
prioritise the work of the [S&CEG](/egs#sources); the CCEG mailing
list had been silent for three months, they have no Coordinator, and
none of its members have been active recently

**2015-06-15** Reported to the [S&CEG](/egs#sources) on a [possible
opportunity to work with
FamilySearch](/pipermail/sources-citations_fhiso.org/2015-June/000194.html)
on a representation of source metadata.

**2015-04-10**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2015-April/000004.html)
the creation of the [Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources), and
approved their [directives](/sceg-directives).

**2015-02-27** Accepted with regret the resignation of Justin York to be
Coordinator of the [CCEG](/egs#core). Without a Coordinator or any
active members, the CCEG is effectively dormant.

**2015-01-14** Appointed Sue Adams to be Coordinator of the [Sources &
Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2015-01-14** Agreed on [a suggested prioritisation of CCEG
work](/pipermail/core-concepts_fhiso.org/2015-January/000254.html).

**2015-01-06** Noted that the Board, in consultation with the TSC, have
recommended the prioritisation of three areas of technical work: (1)
further standardisation of GEDCOM and/or GEDCOM-X; (2) a new sources and
citations standard; (3) a new research transfer format. 

**2014-11-26** Noted a commitment from Nick Hall to work on the [Sources
& Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2014-10-16** Resolved that the collection of use cases and user
stories and the recommendation of functional requirements in a
particular subject area shall ordinarily be considered exploratory work,
per section 1.2 of the Operations & Policy Manual, and conducted by the
specific technical group or groups tasked with work in that area.

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Diane Rogers to work on the
[Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Richard Tallent to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core) as an associate member.

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Richard Tallent to work on the
[Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources) as an associate member.

**2014-10-04**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-October/000003.html)
the creation of the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex) and the informal [FHISO
bibliography](https://github.com/fhiso/bibliography).

**2014-10-02** Approved the [LexEG](/egs#lex)'s
[directives](/sceg-directives).

**2014-09-30** Appointed Tony Proctor to be Coordinator of the
[LexEG](/egs#lex) 

**2014-09-26** Produced [draft
directives](https://github.com/fhiso/tsc-governance/blob/master/LexEG/directives.md)
for review by the initial LexEG members.

**2014-09-25** Noted a commitment from Elizabeth Shown Mills to work on
the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex).

**2014-09-23**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-public_fhiso.org/2014-September/000598.html)
the creation of the [Core Concepts EG](/egs#core), and approved its
[directives](/cceg-directives).

**2014-09-20** Noted a commitment from Jan Murphy to work on the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-16** Approved a proposal by Tony Proctor to start an informal
[FHISO bibliography](https://github.com/fhiso/bibliography) and
appointed Tony its editor.

**2014-09-16** Selected [GitHub](https://github.com/fhiso) as our
preferred collaboration platform for producing technical documents on
the recommendation of the CCEG Coordinator.

**2014-09-12** Appointed Justin York to be Coordinator of the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-09** Noted a commitment from Constance Horne to work on the
[CCEG](/egs#core) as an associate member.

**2014-09-09** Produced a policy on [document
formats](http://fhiso.org/technical-style-guide/) produced by EGs.

**2014-09-08** Noted the resignation of Thomas Wetmore from the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-05** Produced
[guidelines](/pipermail/tsc-public_fhiso.org/2014-September/000296.html)
on the use of the [tsc-public](/mailman/listinfo/tsc-public_fhiso.org)
list. 

**2014-09-01** Produced [draft
directives](/pipermail/core-concepts_fhiso.org/2014-September/000000.html)
for review by the initial CCEG members. 

**2014-08-29** Noted a commitment from John Tracy Cunningham to work on
the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex). 

**2014-08-28** Thanked the Board for approving the [Operations & Policy
Manual](/opm) with minor changes, and made it public on the website.

**2014-08-26** Accepted and
[announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-August/000001.html) a
proposal from Tony Proctor for a [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex).

**2014-08-26** Noted a commitment from Thomas Wetmore to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core).

**2014-08-26** Submitted the [Operations & Policy Manual](/opm) to the
Board for approval.

**2014-08-26** Noted a commitment from Sue Adams to work on the [Sources
& Citations EG](/egs#sources). 

**2014-08-25** Noted a commitment from Justin York to work on the [Core
Concepts EG](/egs#core).

**2014-08-20** Resolved that [CFPS](/call-for-papers/) papers need to be
stand-alone documents, that any links or citations need to be supporting
information but not the meat of the paper.

**2014-08-16** Noted a proposal from Tony Proctor to split the [Core
Concepts EG](/egs#core) in two, one part to produce a lexicon of terms,
the other to determine the project scope. Suggested further discussion
should occur on the [tsc-public](/mailman/listinfo/tsc-public_fhiso.org)
list.

**2014-08-16** Noted a commitment from Nick Matthews to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core). 

**2014-08-15**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-August/000000.html)
the [start of technical
work](http://fhiso.org/2014/08/technical-work-begins-at-fhiso/).

**2014-08-15** Proposed four initial [exploratory groups](/egs):
Core Concepts, Modularity, Data Formalism, and Sources & Citations

**2014-08-15** Thanked the Board for approving the [TSC
Charter](/charter).

Commit message:

Jan board meeting gave authority to release

minutes.md, after:

Minutes of the Technical Standing Committee
===========================================

**2016-02-16** Approved our [priorities](/priorities) and [technical
strategy](/strategy) documents as non-binding statements of TSC guidance.
Approved [vocabularies policy](/policies/vocabularies) as a draft for 
wider comment on tsc-public.

**2016-01-19** Presented our draft [priorities](/priorities), [technical
strategy](/strategy), and [vocabularies policy](/policies/vocabularies)
at the 19 January Board meeting, where it was agreed that we should
make any final changes and release them to [tsc-public](/tsc-public)
for further discussion.

**2016-01-07** Produced a short draft document listing [our immediate
priorities](/priorities), and a longer draft [technical strategy
paper](/strategy).

**2015-12-07** Published a draft policy on the [prefered use of
vocabularies](/policies/vocabularies), and amended the [style
guide](/policies/style) to say that "FHISO standards will normally be
made available in both HTML and PDF formats".

**2015-11-27** Noted that the [27 November Board
meeting](/aboutfhiso/fhiso-board/minutes/2015-11-27/), in consultation
with the TSC, recommended: that the TSC should produce a short high-level
strategy paper; that technical work should focus on narrow citations
standards covering vocabularies for textual citation elements and, less
pressingly, describing source derivation; that the TSC should draft
a general policy on the preferred nature of vocabularies, such as the
use of URIs; and that these TSC minutes should be made public.

**2015-11-22** Deployed the new [technical
website](http://tech.fhiso.org/).

**2015-11-21** Thanked the Board for approving the updated [Operations &
Policy Manual](/opm).

**2015-11-20** Proposed some minor modifications to the [Operations &
Policy Manual](/opm) to the Board for approval.

**2015-08-21** Produced the first draft of a [new technical
website](http://tech.fhiso.org/) for the TSC, automatically updating its
content from Github repositories.

**2015-08-17**
[Suggested](/pipermail/sources-citations_fhiso.org/2015-August/000289.html)
to the S&CEG that FHISO's general policy should be to use URIs as
metadata identifiers.

**2015-06-19** Suspended the [CCEG](/egs#core) in order to
prioritise the work of the [S&CEG](/egs#sources); the CCEG mailing
list had been silent for three months, they have no Coordinator, and
none of its members have been active recently

**2015-06-15** Reported to the [S&CEG](/egs#sources) on a [possible
opportunity to work with
FamilySearch](/pipermail/sources-citations_fhiso.org/2015-June/000194.html)
on a representation of source metadata.

**2015-04-10**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2015-April/000004.html)
the creation of the [Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources), and
approved their [directives](/sceg-directives).

**2015-02-27** Accepted with regret the resignation of Justin York to be
Coordinator of the [CCEG](/egs#core). Without a Coordinator or any
active members, the CCEG is effectively dormant.

**2015-01-14** Appointed Sue Adams to be Coordinator of the [Sources &
Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2015-01-14** Agreed on [a suggested prioritisation of CCEG
work](/pipermail/core-concepts_fhiso.org/2015-January/000254.html).

**2015-01-06** Noted that the Board, in consultation with the TSC, have
recommended the prioritisation of three areas of technical work: (1)
further standardisation of GEDCOM and/or GEDCOM-X; (2) a new sources and
citations standard; (3) a new research transfer format. 

**2014-11-26** Noted a commitment from Nick Hall to work on the [Sources
& Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2014-10-16** Resolved that the collection of use cases and user
stories and the recommendation of functional requirements in a
particular subject area shall ordinarily be considered exploratory work,
per section 1.2 of the Operations & Policy Manual, and conducted by the
specific technical group or groups tasked with work in that area.

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Diane Rogers to work on the
[Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources).

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Richard Tallent to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core) as an associate member.

**2014-10-08** Noted a commitment from Richard Tallent to work on the
[Sources & Citations EG](/egs#sources) as an associate member.

**2014-10-04**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-October/000003.html)
the creation of the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex) and the informal [FHISO
bibliography](https://github.com/fhiso/bibliography).

**2014-10-02** Approved the [LexEG](/egs#lex)'s
[directives](/sceg-directives).

**2014-09-30** Appointed Tony Proctor to be Coordinator of the
[LexEG](/egs#lex) 

**2014-09-26** Produced [draft
directives](https://github.com/fhiso/tsc-governance/blob/master/LexEG/directives.md)
for review by the initial LexEG members.

**2014-09-25** Noted a commitment from Elizabeth Shown Mills to work on
the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex).

**2014-09-23**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-public_fhiso.org/2014-September/000598.html)
the creation of the [Core Concepts EG](/egs#core), and approved its
[directives](/cceg-directives).

**2014-09-20** Noted a commitment from Jan Murphy to work on the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-16** Approved a proposal by Tony Proctor to start an informal
[FHISO bibliography](https://github.com/fhiso/bibliography) and
appointed Tony its editor.

**2014-09-16** Selected [GitHub](https://github.com/fhiso) as our
preferred collaboration platform for producing technical documents on
the recommendation of the CCEG Coordinator.

**2014-09-12** Appointed Justin York to be Coordinator of the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-09** Noted a commitment from Constance Horne to work on the
[CCEG](/egs#core) as an associate member.

**2014-09-09** Produced a policy on [document
formats](http://fhiso.org/technical-style-guide/) produced by EGs.

**2014-09-08** Noted the resignation of Thomas Wetmore from the
[CCEG](/egs#core).

**2014-09-05** Produced
[guidelines](/pipermail/tsc-public_fhiso.org/2014-September/000296.html)
on the use of the [tsc-public](/mailman/listinfo/tsc-public_fhiso.org)
list. 

**2014-09-01** Produced [draft
directives](/pipermail/core-concepts_fhiso.org/2014-September/000000.html)
for review by the initial CCEG members. 

**2014-08-29** Noted a commitment from John Tracy Cunningham to work on
the [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex). 

**2014-08-28** Thanked the Board for approving the [Operations & Policy
Manual](/opm) with minor changes, and made it public on the website.

**2014-08-26** Accepted and
[announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-August/000001.html) a
proposal from Tony Proctor for a [Lexicon EG](/egs#lex).

**2014-08-26** Noted a commitment from Thomas Wetmore to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core).

**2014-08-26** Submitted the [Operations & Policy Manual](/opm) to the
Board for approval.

**2014-08-26** Noted a commitment from Sue Adams to work on the [Sources
& Citations EG](/egs#sources). 

**2014-08-25** Noted a commitment from Justin York to work on the [Core
Concepts EG](/egs#core).

**2014-08-20** Resolved that [CFPS](/call-for-papers/) papers need to be
stand-alone documents, that any links or citations need to be supporting
information but not the meat of the paper.

**2014-08-16** Noted a proposal from Tony Proctor to split the [Core
Concepts EG](/egs#core) in two, one part to produce a lexicon of terms,
the other to determine the project scope. Suggested further discussion
should occur on the [tsc-public](/mailman/listinfo/tsc-public_fhiso.org)
list.

**2014-08-16** Noted a commitment from Nick Matthews to work on the
[Core Concepts EG](/egs#core). 

**2014-08-15**
[Announced](/pipermail/tsc-announce_fhiso.org/2014-August/000000.html)
the [start of technical
work](http://fhiso.org/2014/08/technical-work-begins-at-fhiso/).

**2014-08-15** Proposed four initial [exploratory groups](/egs):
Core Concepts, Modularity, Data Formalism, and Sources & Citations

**2014-08-15** Thanked the Board for approving the [TSC
Charter](/charter).
