---
title: Directives of the Technical Project Team
date: 3 June 2017
numbersections: true
...
Directives of the Technical Project Team
========================================

*This is a draft that has not been approved by the Technical Standing
Committee.*

Background
----------

The Board and Technical Standing Committee (TSC) have determined that
while FHISO remains at its current size, in order to [simplify FHISO's
governance](/governance), technical work will be dissolved into a
*committee of the whole* under the leadership of the TSC.  For the
purpose of the [Operations and Policy Manual (O&PM)](/governance/opm)
and [Charter](/governance/charter), this committee of the whole is a
Project Team caled the Technical Project Team (TPT).  It is tasked with
carrying out project development work, as defined in ยง1.3 of the O&PM,
into such areas as the TSC shall from time to time determine.

Operation
---------

When the TSC approves a new project proposal, it may assign the
associated project development work to the TPT.  Often the project
proposal will take the form of one or more First Public Draft produced
during the exploratory phase, and the focus of the project development
phase will be to turn these into a Proposed Standard that can be put to
a vote of the FHISO membership to become a FHISO Standard.  The process
may also include the production of executive summaries, additional
documentation, test suites, sample code and other such material that
will not consistute a normative part of the eventual FHISO Standard.
All deliverables produced by the TPT should conform to the guidance in
ยง5 of the O&PM. 

Any willing participant may participate in the work of the TPT via the
[tsc-public@fhiso.org](/tsc-public) mailing list.  Technical priority
and direction will be determined by the TSC, taking into consideration
external opportunities and available resources, as well as opinions
expressed on tsc-public.  

The TSC, or one or more Editor appointed by the TSC, shall be
responsible for maintaining all deliverables produced by the TPT.  The
development copies of deliverables should be kept in one of [FHISO's
Github repositories](https://github.com/fhiso/), and should conform to
the [Technical Style Guide](/policies/style) and other [technical
policies](/policies).  From time to time as significant changes are
completed, Public Drafts will be issued, normally in both HTML and PDF
form, and placed on the [list of Public Drafts](/drafts) on FHISO's
website.

The TSC, or one or more Recorder appointed by the TSC, will make a
good-faith effort to log and post an executive summary of major
decisions and other technical progress.

Governance
----------

The TSC shall collectively act as Coordinator of the TPT.  

Any Member or Associate of FHISO who participates in the work of the
TPT, including through discussion on the tsc-public mailing list, shall
be deemed a member of TPT.

Individuals may be given roles within the technical process and will be
considered to have ownership of their roles' assigned scope provided
they remain active in fulfilling those roles. Silences or
non-participation may be deemed sufficient reason to reassign or bypass
roles.
