vocabularies.md, before:

---
title: Preferred nature of vocabularies
date: 23 March 2016
...
# Preferred nature of vocabularies

This is a **draft** FHISO policy written after the [November 2015 Board
meeting](/aboutfhiso/fhiso-board/minutes/2015-11-27/) resolved that "the
TSC will draft and release &hellip; a general policy on vocabularies".
It was released by the TSC for wider comment on the [tsc-public mailing
list](/tsc-public) and has been updated to reflect the consensus
reached on that list.

Although neither absolutely binding nor completely immutable, future
FHISO standards and other technical documents should follow this FHISO
policy insofar as it applies, unless there are exceptional circumstances
not to do so.

The key words *must*, *must not*, *required*, *shall*, *shall not*,
*should*, *should not*, *recommended*,  *may*, and *optional* in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

The examples given in this documented are intended as illustration only.
This document does not define any actual *vocabularies*.  As actual
*vocablaries* are defined, the examples herein may be updated to reflect
them.

## Vocabularies and terms

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) answers the question "[What is a
vocabulary?](https://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/ontology#summary)"
as follows:

> Vocabularies define the concepts and relationships (also referred to
> as "terms") used to describe and represent an area of concern.
> Vocabularies are used to classify the terms that can be used in a
> particular application, characterize possible relationships, and
> define possible constraints on using those terms. In practice,
> vocabularies can be very complex (with several thousands of terms) or
> very simple (describing one or two concepts only).

A **vocabulary** is defined to be a set of related *terms*, where each
*term* identifies some specific concept, idea or relationship.  How the
*terms* in a *vocabulary* are related to each other is not specified,
and in particular there is no assumption that they can be used in the
same context, for example as possible values of some field.  A
*vocabulary* is simply a collection of *terms* that might usefully be
discussed together, for example, all the *terms* defined in a particular
standard or section of a standard.  Given this rather nebulous
definition, the word *should* be avoided in FHISO standards and other
technical documents if a more precisely-defined word or phrase is
available.

A **term** consists of a unique, machine-readable identifier, known as
the *term name*, paired with a clearly-defined meaning for the
concept or idea that it represents.  This meaning *shall* be written in
a natural language (such as English), though aspects of the definition
*may* also be available in machine-parsable form.

## Term names

A **term name** *shall* canonically be an IRI matching the `IRI`
production in §2.2 of [RFC 3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).
IRIs have been chosen in preference to URIs because it is recognised
that certain culture-specific genealogical concepts may not have English
names, and in such cases the human-legibility of IRIs is advantageous.

FHISO standards *may* define new *terms*, and *may* use *terms* defined in
third-party standards.  Where possible all *terms* used in FHISO
standards *should*:

- be defined in an [open standard](/opm#openness);
- have a scheme of `http` or `https`; 
- be defined on a domain under the control of the standard's authors; and
- be a IRI which, when visited, provides a human- or machine-readable
  description of the meaning of the vocabulary *term* in a common, open
  format.

In additional, *terms* defined in FHISO standards *shall* use the
following IRI patterns:

- A scheme of `http`.
- An authority with just the host `fhiso.org`.
- A path constructed from the following slash-separated path segments, 
  each of which *should* match the `NCName` production in the [XML
  Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) specification:
    1. the literal string `term`;
    2. zero or more short names used to name of the *vocabulary*
       (or the literal string `type` &mdash; see below in the section on
       *classes*); 
    3. a short name for the *term*.
- No query or fragment.

Although this permits an arbitrary number of path segments between the
literal `term` and the name of the *term*, exactly one path segment
*should* normally be used.  For example, a *term* named "birth" in some
future FHISO "events" vocabulary might have the *term name*
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth`.

The use of additional segments to partition a *vocabulary* into parts is
permitted but *not recommended* in normal circumstances.  It is also
permitted but *not recommended* to have zero path segments between the
literal `term` and the name of the *term*; this should only be done if a
term has sufficiently wide applicability that it is not naturally part
of one specific vocabulary.

*Term names* are case-sensitive, but FHISO *should not* define multiple
*terms* that differ only in their capitalisation.  Implementors are
warned that some current third-party standard do contain *terms*
differing only in their capitalisation, and FHISO standards *may* use
such *terms*.

A **namespace** is a collection of terms whose *term names* all share a
common prefix which is itself a valid IRI and is known as the
**namespace name**.  *Namespace names* *should* normally end with a
delimiter character such as `/` or `#`.  For example, the *term*
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth` is part of a *namespace* with a
*namespace name* of `http://fhiso.org/term/events/`.  A *namespace* is a
*vocabulary*, but not all *vocabularies* are *namespaces* &mdash; it can
also be convenient to talk about *vocabularies* that span several
*namespaces*, and also *vocabularies* that are a subset of a namespace.

Comparison of *term names* uses the "simple string comparison" algorithm
given in §5.3.1 of [RFC 3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).  This
is how [XML Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) compares
namespace IRIs and it involves no normalisation of *term names* before
comparing.

Applications *must not* make inferences about the meaning or usage of a
*term* based solely on its *term name*.

## Compact term names

FHISO standards or other technical document *may* allow *terms* to be
written in ways other than as IRIs, and if so *shall* provide an
unambiguous definition of how such *terms* are converted to and from
their canonical form as an IRI.  This conversion process *shall not*
depend on anything external to the document or data stream.

FHISO's preferred way of shortening *term names* is to use some form of
**compact term name**.  A standard doing so *should* define a mechanism
like that in [XML Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) to
bind a *namespace name* to shorter, more convenient identifier called
the **namespace prefix**.  A *compact term name* comprises a *namespace
prefix*, followed by a separator (which will typically but not
necessarily a colon, depending on the host language), followed by a
**local part**.  The *term name* in IRI form is found by concatenating
the *namespace name* corresponding to the *namespace prefix* with the
*local part*.  For example, if the IRI `http://fhiso.org/term/events/`
is bound to the prefix `ev`, then `ev:birth` could be the compact
representation of the term `http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth`.

*Compact term names* might take the syntactic form of a `QName` in [XML
Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/), allowing *terms* to
be used as element or attribute names in XML formats.  In an XML 1.0
document, *namespace names* are URIs, not IRIs; algorithms for
converting IRIs to and from URIs can be found in §3 of [RFC
3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).  More generally, *compact
term names* might take the form of a [CURIE](https://www.w3.org/TR/curie/);
and [CFPS 37](/cfps/files/cfps37.pdf) gives an example of how they might
be used backwards-compatibly in GEDCOM.

## IRI resolution

An HTTP 1.1 GET request made without an `Accept` header to a *term name*
IRI (once coverted to a URI per §3.1 of [RFC
3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987)) *should* result in a 
303 "See Other" redirect to a document containing a human-readable
definition of the *term*.  This document *should* have a `text/plain` or
`text/html` content-type, and *should* use either an ASCII or UTF-8
encoding which *should* be explicitly specified in the content-type.

A 303 redirect is considered [best practice for Linked
Data](http://linkeddatabook.com/editions/1.0/#sec:303Redirects) to avoid
confusing the concept represented by the *term* with the definition of
that *term*, which can be found at the post-redirect URL.  Following
[W3C policy on vocabulary
IRIs](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2005Jun/0039.html),
*term* IRIs defined by FHISO *must not* result in a 200 response unless
the *term* actually denotes the document being retrieved rather than a
concept defined in it.  

The webserver serving the *term* IRI *should* support content
negotiation (per §3.4.1 of [RFC
7231](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231)) which *may* allow *term*
definitions to be fetched in additional human-readable formats.  Future
FHISO policy is expected to define a **discovery** mechanism by which
*vocabulary* authors can provide machine-readable information to
applications on the properties and expected usage of otherwise-unknown
*terms*.  This will involve applications making a GET request to the
*term name* IRI with an appropriate `Accept` header, and receiving a 303
"See Other" redirect to a machine-readable resource in the expected
format.  Support for *discovery* will be *optional* for clients and
*recommended* for servers.

Webservers that do not support content negotiation *should* (and
other webservers *may*) provide a `Link` header, as defined in [RFC
5988](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5998), to locate the
machine-readable description of the *term*.  Clients that support
*discovery* *should* support this mechanism too.

## Classes

A **class** is a *term* used to denote the set of values or entities
that may be used in some particular context.  There might, for example,
be an "individual" *class* to denote people of genealogical interest;
the nature of the such entities is beyond the scope of this policy, but
this policy permits a *class* to be defined representing individuals,
howsoever they may be represented.  

Other *classes* might represent various types of literal, such as
strings, dates, integers, and booleans.  Such general *classes* *should
not* be defined in domain-specific *vocabularies* as they are likely to
required by many FHISO standards.  It is anticipated that a future FHISO
policy will provide for common definitions of these basic *classes*,
possibly by reference to a third-party standard such as [XML Schema
Datatypes](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/).  Where domain-specific
*classes* are required, for example to represent strings in some
microformat, these *may* be defined included in the appropriate
*vocabulary*.

Finally, *classes* can be used to represent a collection of *terms*.
Such *classes* of *terms* are examples of *vocabularies* and are known
as **vocabulary classes**.  Not all *classes* are *vocabularies*, as the
individual and integer examples demonstrate.

An example of a *vocabulary class* might be an "event type" *class*
consisting of terms for "birth", "burial" and such like.  A FHISO
standard that defines a *vocabulary class* *shall* state whether or not
it is **extensible**: that is, whether or not third parties are be
permitted to define additional *terms* of that *class*.  Due to the
widely variable nature of genealogical data, *vocabulary classes*
*should* be extensible unless there are compelling reasons to the
contrary.

(Some authorities use different nomenclature such as "enumerations" or
"controlled vocabulary" to describe these concepts.  FHISO does *not
recommend* the use of this terminology as it is used ambiguously in the
literature: some authorities use them for any *vocabulary class* while
others reserve them for just those that are not *extensibile*.)

As for any *term*, the *term name* of a *class* is an IRI, called its
**class name**.  These *may* be put in a *vocabulary*-specific
*namespace* alongside other *terms*, for example
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/Type`; alternatively, they *may* be placed
in the `http://fhiso.org/term/type/` *namespace*, known as the **type
namespace**.  *Classes* *should* be put in *type namespace* if they are
too general to belong in a *vocabulary*-specific *namespace*, or if the
natural choice of name would conflict with another *term* in the
*vocabulary*-specific *namespace*.

FHISO standards *should* respect the convention that *class* names have
a upper-case first letter, for example `http://fhiso.org/term/type/Sex`.

## Properties

A **property** is a *term* used to identify a particular attribute
of an entity, where the attribute has an associated value, which may
simply be a boolean.  A link between two entities can also be expressed
as a *property* where the value is another entity (or a reference to
another entity; the distinction is beyond the scope of this policy).

Any FHISO standard that defines a *property* *shall* also define:

- its **domain** &mdash; the context in which it is to be used;

- its **cardinality** &mdash; whether it can appear multiple times on the same
  entity, and if so whether any meaning is ascribed to their order; and
  
- its **range** &mdash; the expected form of the *property*'s value, such as
  whether it is free-form text, an integer or date, another *term* (of a
  particular *class*), or another entity of some form.

The *domain* and *range* of a *property* *should* normally be specified
in terms of a *class*.  For the *domain* this is the *class* of entity
on which the *property* may be used; for the *range* it is the *class*
of the *property*'s value.

In some cases when the expected value of a *property* is another *term*
(i.e. when its *range* is a *vocabulary class*), the natural choice of
name for the *class* of values might be the same as the obvious choice
of *property* name.  For example, the *property* denoting an
individual's sex and the *class* of possible sexes might both naturally
be called `http://fhiso.org/term/indi/sex` (or differ only in
capitalisation).  This is an example of when the *term namespace* should
be used.

FHISO standards *should* respect the convention that *property* names
have a lower-case first letter; some example *properties* include
`http://fhiso.org/term/indi/occupation` and
`http://fhiso.org/term/indi/religion`.

*Properties* shall not have default values, and no information shall be
assumed from the absence of a *property*.


## Compatibility 

Once standardised, the definitions of *terms* *must* only be change in a
backwards-compatible way.  As *term names* have no version number
embedded in them, this means their meaning *must* essentially stay
unchanged, and neither expand nor contract in scope in a future
standard.

Commit message:

Raise issue with 'namespace' definition

vocabularies.md, after:

---
title: Preferred nature of vocabularies
date: 23 March 2016
...
# Preferred nature of vocabularies

This is a **draft** FHISO policy written after the [November 2015 Board
meeting](/aboutfhiso/fhiso-board/minutes/2015-11-27/) resolved that "the
TSC will draft and release &hellip; a general policy on vocabularies".
It was released by the TSC for wider comment on the [tsc-public mailing
list](/tsc-public) and has been updated to reflect the consensus
reached on that list.

Although neither absolutely binding nor completely immutable, future
FHISO standards and other technical documents should follow this FHISO
policy insofar as it applies, unless there are exceptional circumstances
not to do so.

The key words *must*, *must not*, *required*, *shall*, *shall not*,
*should*, *should not*, *recommended*,  *may*, and *optional* in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC
2119](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119).

The examples given in this documented are intended as illustration only.
This document does not define any actual *vocabularies*.  As actual
*vocablaries* are defined, the examples herein may be updated to reflect
them.

## Vocabularies and terms

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) answers the question "[What is a
vocabulary?](https://www.w3.org/standards/semanticweb/ontology#summary)"
as follows:

> Vocabularies define the concepts and relationships (also referred to
> as "terms") used to describe and represent an area of concern.
> Vocabularies are used to classify the terms that can be used in a
> particular application, characterize possible relationships, and
> define possible constraints on using those terms. In practice,
> vocabularies can be very complex (with several thousands of terms) or
> very simple (describing one or two concepts only).

A **vocabulary** is defined to be a set of related *terms*, where each
*term* identifies some specific concept, idea or relationship.  How the
*terms* in a *vocabulary* are related to each other is not specified,
and in particular there is no assumption that they can be used in the
same context, for example as possible values of some field.  A
*vocabulary* is simply a collection of *terms* that might usefully be
discussed together, for example, all the *terms* defined in a particular
standard or section of a standard.  Given this rather nebulous
definition, the word *should* be avoided in FHISO standards and other
technical documents if a more precisely-defined word or phrase is
available.

A **term** consists of a unique, machine-readable identifier, known as
the *term name*, paired with a clearly-defined meaning for the
concept or idea that it represents.  This meaning *shall* be written in
a natural language (such as English), though aspects of the definition
*may* also be available in machine-parsable form.

## Term names

A **term name** *shall* canonically be an IRI matching the `IRI`
production in §2.2 of [RFC 3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).
IRIs have been chosen in preference to URIs because it is recognised
that certain culture-specific genealogical concepts may not have English
names, and in such cases the human-legibility of IRIs is advantageous.

FHISO standards *may* define new *terms*, and *may* use *terms* defined in
third-party standards.  Where possible all *terms* used in FHISO
standards *should*:

- be defined in an [open standard](/opm#openness);
- have a scheme of `http` or `https`; 
- be defined on a domain under the control of the standard's authors; and
- be a IRI which, when visited, provides a human- or machine-readable
  description of the meaning of the vocabulary *term* in a common, open
  format.

In additional, *terms* defined in FHISO standards *shall* use the
following IRI patterns:

- A scheme of `http`.
- An authority with just the host `fhiso.org`.
- A path constructed from the following slash-separated path segments, 
  each of which *should* match the `NCName` production in the [XML
  Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) specification:
    1. the literal string `term`;
    2. zero or more short names used to name of the *vocabulary*
       (or the literal string `type` &mdash; see below in the section on
       *classes*); 
    3. a short name for the *term*.
- No query or fragment.

Although this permits an arbitrary number of path segments between the
literal `term` and the name of the *term*, exactly one path segment
*should* normally be used.  For example, a *term* named "birth" in some
future FHISO "events" vocabulary might have the *term name*
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth`.

The use of additional segments to partition a *vocabulary* into parts is
permitted but *not recommended* in normal circumstances.  It is also
permitted but *not recommended* to have zero path segments between the
literal `term` and the name of the *term*; this should only be done if a
term has sufficiently wide applicability that it is not naturally part
of one specific vocabulary.

*Term names* are case-sensitive, but FHISO *should not* define multiple
*terms* that differ only in their capitalisation.  Implementors are
warned that some current third-party standard do contain *terms*
differing only in their capitalisation, and FHISO standards *may* use
such *terms*.

\[Tony 2016-04-13: [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Namespace) is a little ambiguous on the definition of a namespace: (a) "In computing, a namespace is a set of symbols that are used to organize objects of various kinds, so that these objects may be referred to by name"; (b) "A namespace in computer science (...), is an abstract container or environment created to hold a logical grouping of unique identifiers or symbols" -- I much prefer to view it as a container for the terms rather than the set of terms itself, i.e. a "space" within which they exist.\]

A **namespace** is a collection of terms whose *term names* all share a
common prefix which is itself a valid IRI and is known as the
**namespace name**.  *Namespace names* *should* normally end with a
delimiter character such as `/` or `#`.  For example, the *term*
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth` is part of a *namespace* with a
*namespace name* of `http://fhiso.org/term/events/`.  A *namespace* is a
*vocabulary*, but not all *vocabularies* are *namespaces* &mdash; it can
also be convenient to talk about *vocabularies* that span several
*namespaces*, and also *vocabularies* that are a subset of a namespace.

Comparison of *term names* uses the "simple string comparison" algorithm
given in §5.3.1 of [RFC 3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).  This
is how [XML Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) compares
namespace IRIs and it involves no normalisation of *term names* before
comparing.

Applications *must not* make inferences about the meaning or usage of a
*term* based solely on its *term name*.

## Compact term names

FHISO standards or other technical document *may* allow *terms* to be
written in ways other than as IRIs, and if so *shall* provide an
unambiguous definition of how such *terms* are converted to and from
their canonical form as an IRI.  This conversion process *shall not*
depend on anything external to the document or data stream.

FHISO's preferred way of shortening *term names* is to use some form of
**compact term name**.  A standard doing so *should* define a mechanism
like that in [XML Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/) to
bind a *namespace name* to shorter, more convenient identifier called
the **namespace prefix**.  A *compact term name* comprises a *namespace
prefix*, followed by a separator (which will typically but not
necessarily a colon, depending on the host language), followed by a
**local part**.  The *term name* in IRI form is found by concatenating
the *namespace name* corresponding to the *namespace prefix* with the
*local part*.  For example, if the IRI `http://fhiso.org/term/events/`
is bound to the prefix `ev`, then `ev:birth` could be the compact
representation of the term `http://fhiso.org/term/events/birth`.

*Compact term names* might take the syntactic form of a `QName` in [XML
Namespaces](https://www.w3.org/TR/REC-xml-names/), allowing *terms* to
be used as element or attribute names in XML formats.  In an XML 1.0
document, *namespace names* are URIs, not IRIs; algorithms for
converting IRIs to and from URIs can be found in §3 of [RFC
3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987).  More generally, *compact
term names* might take the form of a [CURIE](https://www.w3.org/TR/curie/);
and [CFPS 37](/cfps/files/cfps37.pdf) gives an example of how they might
be used backwards-compatibly in GEDCOM.

## IRI resolution

An HTTP 1.1 GET request made without an `Accept` header to a *term name*
IRI (once coverted to a URI per §3.1 of [RFC
3987](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3987)) *should* result in a 
303 "See Other" redirect to a document containing a human-readable
definition of the *term*.  This document *should* have a `text/plain` or
`text/html` content-type, and *should* use either an ASCII or UTF-8
encoding which *should* be explicitly specified in the content-type.

A 303 redirect is considered [best practice for Linked
Data](http://linkeddatabook.com/editions/1.0/#sec:303Redirects) to avoid
confusing the concept represented by the *term* with the definition of
that *term*, which can be found at the post-redirect URL.  Following
[W3C policy on vocabulary
IRIs](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-tag/2005Jun/0039.html),
*term* IRIs defined by FHISO *must not* result in a 200 response unless
the *term* actually denotes the document being retrieved rather than a
concept defined in it.  

The webserver serving the *term* IRI *should* support content
negotiation (per §3.4.1 of [RFC
7231](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231)) which *may* allow *term*
definitions to be fetched in additional human-readable formats.  Future
FHISO policy is expected to define a **discovery** mechanism by which
*vocabulary* authors can provide machine-readable information to
applications on the properties and expected usage of otherwise-unknown
*terms*.  This will involve applications making a GET request to the
*term name* IRI with an appropriate `Accept` header, and receiving a 303
"See Other" redirect to a machine-readable resource in the expected
format.  Support for *discovery* will be *optional* for clients and
*recommended* for servers.

Webservers that do not support content negotiation *should* (and
other webservers *may*) provide a `Link` header, as defined in [RFC
5988](http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc5998), to locate the
machine-readable description of the *term*.  Clients that support
*discovery* *should* support this mechanism too.

## Classes

A **class** is a *term* used to denote the set of values or entities
that may be used in some particular context.  There might, for example,
be an "individual" *class* to denote people of genealogical interest;
the nature of the such entities is beyond the scope of this policy, but
this policy permits a *class* to be defined representing individuals,
howsoever they may be represented.  

Other *classes* might represent various types of literal, such as
strings, dates, integers, and booleans.  Such general *classes* *should
not* be defined in domain-specific *vocabularies* as they are likely to
required by many FHISO standards.  It is anticipated that a future FHISO
policy will provide for common definitions of these basic *classes*,
possibly by reference to a third-party standard such as [XML Schema
Datatypes](https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema-2/).  Where domain-specific
*classes* are required, for example to represent strings in some
microformat, these *may* be defined included in the appropriate
*vocabulary*.

Finally, *classes* can be used to represent a collection of *terms*.
Such *classes* of *terms* are examples of *vocabularies* and are known
as **vocabulary classes**.  Not all *classes* are *vocabularies*, as the
individual and integer examples demonstrate.

An example of a *vocabulary class* might be an "event type" *class*
consisting of terms for "birth", "burial" and such like.  A FHISO
standard that defines a *vocabulary class* *shall* state whether or not
it is **extensible**: that is, whether or not third parties are be
permitted to define additional *terms* of that *class*.  Due to the
widely variable nature of genealogical data, *vocabulary classes*
*should* be extensible unless there are compelling reasons to the
contrary.

(Some authorities use different nomenclature such as "enumerations" or
"controlled vocabulary" to describe these concepts.  FHISO does *not
recommend* the use of this terminology as it is used ambiguously in the
literature: some authorities use them for any *vocabulary class* while
others reserve them for just those that are not *extensibile*.)

As for any *term*, the *term name* of a *class* is an IRI, called its
**class name**.  These *may* be put in a *vocabulary*-specific
*namespace* alongside other *terms*, for example
`http://fhiso.org/term/events/Type`; alternatively, they *may* be placed
in the `http://fhiso.org/term/type/` *namespace*, known as the **type
namespace**.  *Classes* *should* be put in *type namespace* if they are
too general to belong in a *vocabulary*-specific *namespace*, or if the
natural choice of name would conflict with another *term* in the
*vocabulary*-specific *namespace*.

FHISO standards *should* respect the convention that *class* names have
a upper-case first letter, for example `http://fhiso.org/term/type/Sex`.

## Properties

A **property** is a *term* used to identify a particular attribute
of an entity, where the attribute has an associated value, which may
simply be a boolean.  A link between two entities can also be expressed
as a *property* where the value is another entity (or a reference to
another entity; the distinction is beyond the scope of this policy).

Any FHISO standard that defines a *property* *shall* also define:

- its **domain** &mdash; the context in which it is to be used;

- its **cardinality** &mdash; whether it can appear multiple times on the same
  entity, and if so whether any meaning is ascribed to their order; and
  
- its **range** &mdash; the expected form of the *property*'s value, such as
  whether it is free-form text, an integer or date, another *term* (of a
  particular *class*), or another entity of some form.

The *domain* and *range* of a *property* *should* normally be specified
in terms of a *class*.  For the *domain* this is the *class* of entity
on which the *property* may be used; for the *range* it is the *class*
of the *property*'s value.

In some cases when the expected value of a *property* is another *term*
(i.e. when its *range* is a *vocabulary class*), the natural choice of
name for the *class* of values might be the same as the obvious choice
of *property* name.  For example, the *property* denoting an
individual's sex and the *class* of possible sexes might both naturally
be called `http://fhiso.org/term/indi/sex` (or differ only in
capitalisation).  This is an example of when the *term namespace* should
be used.

FHISO standards *should* respect the convention that *property* names
have a lower-case first letter; some example *properties* include
`http://fhiso.org/term/indi/occupation` and
`http://fhiso.org/term/indi/religion`.

*Properties* shall not have default values, and no information shall be
assumed from the absence of a *property*.


## Compatibility 

Once standardised, the definitions of *terms* *must* only be change in a
backwards-compatible way.  As *term names* have no version number
embedded in them, this means their meaning *must* essentially stay
unchanged, and neither expand nor contract in scope in a future
standard.
