Call For Papers FAQ
===================

Welcome to the Family History Information Standards Organisation Call For
Papers answers to Frequently Asked Questions.

What are these papers for?
:   They are a place to propose ideas relating to family history
    standards.  They are not themselves standards or in any way endorsed by
    FHISO. Their purpose is explained in more detail in the [Call](.).

    Additional avenues for sharing ideas will become available as the
    standards development process matures.

Some CFPS numbers don't appear in the list. Why?
:   The numbers are unique but not dense. A number is generated for
    every submission, including submissions that are canceled before they
    reach us and submissions for new versions of old papers.

    For example, number 1 was generated for an internal test submission;
    number 39 was generated for an update of CFPS 6; and number 76 was
    generated by someone filling out the submission form but not actually
    submitting the paper to FHISO.

What happens to a paper I submit?
:   First it is reviewed by an editor. The editor will either send an
    email with suggested improvements or will continue with the posting
    process.

    Each paper is assigned a unique Call For Papers Submission number
    (or CFPS number). The paper is converted to PDF if necessary and a cover
    page is generated and attached to the PDF. The PDF is uploaded with two
    names: cfps*Y*.pdf and cfps*Y*\_v*X*.pdf where *Y* is the CFPS number
    and *X* is a version number.  The paper is then added to the list of
    papers on the FHISO website.

Who can submit a paper?
:   Right now, anyone. There has been some talk of eventually
    restricting submissions to FHISO members, but for now it is open to
    anyone who has an idea to submit.

I have another question not answered above. How can I ask it?
:   Email [papers@fhiso.org](mailto:papers@fhiso.org).

