Call For Papers
===============

Members of the full international community are invited to submit
written proposals for contributions to the FHISO standards development
process.

Papers may be of many types, including technical proposals, descriptions
of functional requirements, or descriptions of entire areas that need
standardisation.  The more formally they are presented, and the better
they are organized, then the easier it will be for them to be
assimilated and indexed. This also applies to the subject matter of each
proposal which should be focused on a single topic or concept.

Papers may use any appropriate organisation and be submitted in any
standard file format; each will be reviewed for clarity and converted to
a portable format (most commonly PDF) by a volunteer before being made
public.

Each paper should open with a brief **abstract** or
summary. A standard cover page will be added automatically after
submission and before posting. Examples can be found on the 
[list of papers received](papers).

If proposals are submitted in a **language** other than English then the
author should coordinate with FHISO to generate an English translation
of it; both the translation and the original document will be published.

FHISO members may submit **comments** on papers; these should be
formatted like, and will be published along with, the papers.  Formal
comments are encouraged over private discussions and emails, as private
communications will not be available to technical committees and the
broader public.  Comments should be of a helpful or constructive nature
as a professional courtesy.

Each submitted paper will be checked by volunteers and then **posted**
for **public** viewing and commenting.

Submitters of papers are natural candidates for inclusion in technical
committees and working groups and may be contacted directly for
potential participation.

Questions about paper submission may be directed to
[papers@fhiso.org](mailto:papers@fhiso.org). Common questions might also
be found at the [Call For Papers Frequently Asked Questions](faq).

[**Click here to submit a paper**](submit).
