---
title: Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
date: 7 December 2016
...
Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
=================================================================

*The official version of FHISO's bylaws are on the [FHISO
website](http://fhiso.org/by-laws/).  This **unofficial version** exists
 for convenience in those circumstances in which a
[markdown](https://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/) version is
useful.  This is an **old version** of that.*

*Enacted on 1 September 2013, and last updated on [7 December
2016](http://fhiso.org/minutes/2016-12-07/) from the [19 April 2016
version](by-laws-20160419).*

Article 1: Name
---------------

The name of the corporation shall be Family History Information
Standards Organisation, Inc., herein after "FHISO," the "Organisation"
or the "Corporation."

Article 2: [Deleted]
--------------------

Article 3: Mission, Goal, and Scope
-----------------------------------

### 3.1 Mission

FHISO brings together stakeholders from the full community for the
purpose of developing open, international, technology standards and
supporting documentation and services to benefit the community. All
members ascribe to, and the Organisation operates in accordance with,
the Code of Conduct—we organise ourselves and operate without prejudice
or bias toward any company, organisation, product, service, individual,
ethnic group, culture or country.

### 3.2 Goal

FHISO shall work transparently and collaboratively to identify, develop,
disseminate, and maintain voluntary, open, consensus-based technical
standards, including necessary supporting documentation and services.
The standards shall be publicly available at no or nominal cost on a
non-discriminatory basis. Anyone may implement the standards for any
purpose, without royalty or license fees. These rights, granted to users
or implementers, may not be revoked by FHISO.

### 3.3 Scope

The scope of FHISO's work encompasses all aspects of technical standards
and guidelines used to manage information in genealogy and family
history:

a.  Identify existing technical, scientific data practices or emerging
    trends in the international community that require standardisation.
b.  Provide a collaborative environment for innovation and problem
    solving.
c.  Prepare new international standards and guidelines.
d.  Publish and disseminate standards and guidelines.
e.  Provide education and support to encourage adoption and use of the
    published standards.
f.  Review, modify, reaffirm or terminate, as appropriate, existing
    standards or guidelines.
g.  Review and participate in developing relevant regional international
    standards.
h.  Monitor interoperability between implementations and, if relevant,
    develop test suites and cases or manage a certification process for
    selected FHISO standards.
i.  Cooperate with other organisations developing standards that fall
    within the scope of, or may relate to, FHISO standards.

Article 3A: Non-discrimination Policy
-------------------------------------

FHISO does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, colour,
creed, gender, gender expression, age, national origin, disability,
marital status, sexual orientation or military status, in any of its
activities or operations.  These activities include, but are not limited
to, dealing with the public, selection of volunteers and vendors, hiring
and firing of staff, and provision of services.

Article 4: Membership
---------------------

Membership shall be voluntary and open to all who are active, interested
in or materially affected by technology standards for genealogy and
family history. Membership in FHISO shall not be conditional on
membership in any other organisation or unreasonably restricted on the
basis of technical qualifications or other such requirements.

### 4.1 Code of Conduct

All members agree to abide by the FHISO Code of Conduct, which may be
amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.

### 4.2 Membership Categories (Membership Classes)

Members shall be classified as Individual Members or Organisational
Members. The Board approves the form of membership applications,
determines the annual dues, and it establishes the framework of other
membership goals and policies which are more specifically developed by
the Membership Standing Committee under the direction of the Board.

#### 4.2.1 Individual Membership

An "Individual Member" is any natural person who has an expressed
interest in technology standards for genealogy and family history and
has agreed to the Code of Conduct. An Individual Member also:

a.  submits a completed Individual Membership application without
    falsification, and
b.  pays the annual Individual Membership Fee. The Board has the
    authority to waive the Membership Fee on a case-by-case basis.

Individual Members represent themselves and not Organisational Members.
Individual Members are entitled each to a single vote. Individual
Members associated with an organisation not a member of FHISO are
expected to make their organisation aware of the benefits of membership
and encourage their organisation to become members of FHISO.

#### 4.2.2 Organisational Membership

An "Organisational Member" is any corporate or organisational entity
with an expressed interest in technology standards for genealogy and
family history. An Organisational Member has agreed to the Code of
Conduct and also:

a.  submits a completed Organisational Membership application without
    falsification, and
b.  pays the annual Organisational Membership Fee. The Board has the
    authority to waive the Membership Fee on a case-by-case basis.

The FHISO Governance and Operations Policies Manual (the "FHISO
Manual"), as approved and published by the Board of Directors,
determines the number of voting representatives allotted to
Organisational Members. For each vote allotted, the Organisational
Member is entitled to appoint an Organisational Member Representative.
Organisational Members shall identify in writing or by e-mail (a) those
individuals authorised and designated as Organisational Member
Representatives with confirmation that each has executed the Code of
Conduct, and (b) a Key Representative from among this group.
Organisational Member Representatives are entitled each to a single
vote. FHISO must receive timely notification of any changes to the
designated representatives in writing or by e-mail.

Article 5: Participation
------------------------

### 5.1 Voting Privileges and Member Participation

Individual Members and Organisational Member Representatives shall be
eligible to participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation,
if they are determined to be "in good standing" as defined by the Board
and set forth in the FHISO Manual. New applicants shall be eligible to
participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation as Individual
Members or Organisational Member Representatives upon submitting the
application, remitting the payment of annual dues, and otherwise meeting
the criteria to be "in good standing."

The Board of Directors may establish a waiting period of not more than
sixty (60) days from the receipt of a new member's completed application
before a new Individual Member or Organisational Member Representative
becomes eligible to exercise voting privileges for the election of
Officers, changes to the Bylaws or Articles of Incorporation, and other
administrative matters as specified by the bylaws, the Chair, the Board,
or the FHISO Manual. At the expiration of the waiting period (if any)
and thereafter, Individual Members and Organisational Member
Representatives shall be eligible to exercise their voting privileges if
they are determined to be "in good standing."

### 5.2 Associate Participation

An "Associate" is neither an Individual Member nor an Organisational
Member Representative of FHISO. An Associate is any natural person who
has an expressed interest in technology standards for genealogy and
family history and has agreed to the Code of Conduct. Associates may
individually be invited to join, subscribe to, comment on or participate
in specific forums, wikis, working groups, and circulars or project
teams sponsored or managed by FHISO. Irrespective of the administrative
titles or description assigned in the conduct of such forums, wikis,
working groups, circulars or project teams, Associates are not members
of FHISO and are not entitled to vote, nor may they participate in
consensus-building or member-only activities.

### 5.3 Founding Members

Individuals and Organisations who become members of FHISO during the
extended organisational period will become designated as "Founding
Members." Organisational Member Representatives during this period will
also become designated as "Founding Members."

The Board may from time to time confer benefits on Founding Members in
accordance with the FHISO Manual and consistent with Article 6 herein.

Article 6: Supporters and Benefactors
-------------------------------------

In accordance with the FHISO Manual, the Board may establish guidelines
and confer benefits on members or non-members, whether individuals or
organisations, in accordance with the Organisation's purposes, including
but not limited to recognition of those individuals or organisations who
provide exceptional support to FHISO. Benefits conferred shall not
affect voting rights, nor shall they increase or decrease the number of
or weight of votes otherwise granted by these bylaws.

Article 7: Registered Office and Registered Agents
--------------------------------------------------

### 7.1 Registered Office

The Organisation shall continuously maintain a registered office in the
state of Arizona at a place designated by the Board of Directors. The
principal office of the Corporation, and such other offices as it may
establish, shall be located at such place(s), either within or outside
the state of Arizona, as may be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.2 Registered Agent

The Organisation shall continuously maintain within the state of Arizona
a registered agent, which shall be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.3 Changes

Any changes in the registered office or the registered agent of the
Organisation shall be accomplished in compliance with the Arizona
Nonprofit Corporation Act and as provided by these Bylaws.

Article 8: Officers
-------------------

### 8.1 Officers

The Officers of the Corporation shall be the Chair, Vice-chair,
Treasurer, Secretary, Technical Standing Committee Coordinator,
Technical Standing Committee Co-coordinator, Membership Standing
Committee Coordinator and Membership Standing Committee Co-coordinator.

### 8.2 Duties

a.  Chair. The Chair is the chief officer of the Corporation and, under
    the jurisdiction and supervision of the Board of Directors, directs
    the Corporation. The Chair is a Voting Member of the Board of
    Directors and serves as its chair. The Chair may also serve as an ex
    officio member without right to vote on all Board committees. The
    Chair, with the approval of the Board of Directors, may discharge
    one or more members of any Committee.
b.  Vice-chair. The Vice-chair is a member of the Board of Directors,
    with vote, and shall, in the absence of the Chair, preside over
    meetings and temporarily assume the responsibilities of the Chair.
c.  Treasurer. The Treasurer is a member of the Board of Directors, with
    vote. The Treasurer shall assist in the development of the annual
    budget and the financial plan and shall assist in raising funds for
    the Corporation's operation.  The Treasurer is responsible for
    developing and reviewing fiscal procedures, and shall assist any
    committee in the preparation and administration of committee or
    project budgets.  In the absence or temporary vacancy of the
    Treasurer, the Secretary shall serve as Treasurer.
d.  Secretary. The Secretary is a member of the Board of Directors, with
    vote, and also the Chief Transparency Officer of the Organisation.
    The Secretary shall maintain the FHISO Manual, agendas and minutes
    of Board and Member meetings, and such other records of the
    Corporation as required by Arizona Law, these bylaws, the Articles
    of Incorporation or FHISO Manual. In the absence or temporary
    vacancy of the Secretary, the Vice-chair shall serve as Secretary.
    In the absence of both these officers, another member of the Board
    shall be appointed to assume these duties; such appointment made by
    a vote of the Board members present, irrespective of whether a
    quorum is met.
e.  Technical Standing Committee Coordinator. The Technical Standing
    Committee Coordinator is a member of the Board of Directors, with
    vote, and serves as Chair of the Technical Standing Committee.
f.  Technical Standing Committee Co-coordinator. The Technical Standing
    Committee Co-coordinator is a member of the Board of Directors, with
    vote, and serves as Vice-chair of the Technical Standing Committee.
g.  Membership Standing Committee Coordinator. The Membership Standing
    Committee Coordinator is a member of the Board of Directors, with
    vote, and serves as Chair of the Membership Standing Committee.
h.  Membership Standing Committee Co-coordinator. The Membership
    Standing Committee Co-coordinator is a member of the Board of
    Directors, with vote, and serves as Vice-chair of the Membership
    Standing Committee.

### 8.3 Terms of Office (Officers)

Terms of office shall be two-year, staggered terms, as follows:

a.  The Chair, Treasurer, Technical Standing Committee Co-coordinator,
    and Membership Standing Committee Coordinator serve as Class A Board
    Members. Class A Directors terms expire in odd-numbered years.
b.  The Vice-chair. Secretary, Technical Standing Committee Coordinator,
    and Membership Standing Committee Co-coordinator serve as Class B
    Board Members. Class B Directors terms expire in even-numbered
    years.

### 8.4 Diversity

Those serving as Chair and Vice-chair will preferably be members from
different regions of the world to promote an understanding of the
diverse needs of the genealogy and family history community.

### 8.5 Officer Succession and Term Limits

#### 8.5.1 Succession

a.  In the event of a vacancy in the position of the Chair, the
    Vice-chair shall succeed to the position of Chair and so serve for
    the duration of the unexpired term of the vacated office. In this
    circumstance, he/she may stand for general election to a consecutive
    term.
b.  In the event of a vacancy in the position of Technical Standing
    Committee Coordinator, the Technical Standing Committee
    Co-coordinator shall succeed to the position of Technical Standing
    Committee Coordinator and so serve for the duration of the unexpired
    term of the vacated office. In this circumstance, he/she may stand
    for general election to a consecutive term. In the event of a
    vacancy in the position of Membership Standing Committee
    Coordinator, the Membership Standing Committee Co-coordinator shall
    succeed to the position of Membership Standing Committee Coordinator
    and so serve for the duration of the unexpired term of the vacated
    office. In this circumstance, he/she may stand for general election
    to a consecutive term.

### 8.6 Officer Vacancy

When a vacancy exists among the Officers listed in Section 8.3, the
Secretary, or acting Secretary, shall compile a list of qualified
candidates by soliciting nominations from the remaining Board members.
The Board will meet in executive session to deliberate and vote about
the qualified nominees until a majority vote of the board elects the new
officer, who shall serve out the unexpired term of the vacated office.
If reasonable notice has been provided in accordance with the FHISO
Manual, then for the purpose of meeting to fill officer vacancies, a
quorum of the Board is preferred, but not required. The Officer so
elected may stand for general election to a consecutive term.

Article 9: Board of Directors
-----------------------------

### 9.1 General Powers and Duties

The governing body of FHISO shall be the Board of Directors ("Board").
The Board shall manage and control FHISO's affairs and property, it
shall establish member policies and set member dues and be responsible
for all other aspects of FHISO's policies and direction. The Board shall
exercise all powers and perform all duties that are necessary or
convenient to carry out FHISO's purposes, except as may be otherwise
provided it in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act or the Articles of
Incorporation.

### 9.2 Composition

The composition of the Board shall, in so far as possible, reflect
FHISO's international scope and purpose including that it shall be
representative of the varied stakeholder interests and provide required
technical, standardisation and project management expertise.

### 9.3 Size and Constituency

The Board consists of the Officers of FHISO, who shall be no fewer than
three in number.

### 9.4 [Deleted]

### 9.5 Resignation; Removal

A Director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chair.
A member of the Board may be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of
the Board.

### 9.6 [Deleted]

### 9.7 Board Member Compensation

The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for serving as
Directors of the Organisation.

### 9.8 Regular Board Meetings

The Board shall hold meetings at least quarterly. Meetings shall be
called as agreed at previous Board Meetings, or upon the request of the
Chair, Vice-chair or one-third of the Board.

### 9.9 [Deleted]

### 9.10 Conduct of Meetings

Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 17.

Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chair,
or, in the absence of the Chair, by the Vice-Chair, or in the absence of
these officers, by a Chairperson chosen by a majority of the voting
Board members in attendance.

### 9.11 Quorum of the Board

Three-fifths of those voting members of the Board who are not taking a
sabbatical shall constitute a quorum for transacting business at any
meeting, except that if a quorum is not present at a meeting, a majority
of the voting Board members present may adjourn the meeting to another
time without notice.

### 9.12 Majority Vote

Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or
these Bylaws, all matters before the Board of Directors shall be decided
by a majority vote of the Board members present and voting at a meeting
at which a quorum exists.

### 9.13 Board Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting

Any action which may be taken by majority vote at a Board Meeting may be
taken without a meeting provided that:

a.  a written proposal is made available to all Board members;
b.  written consent is received from sufficient Board members to
    constitute a quorum; and
c.  no request is made under Section 9.8 of these Bylaws to hold a Board
    Meeting to discuss the proposed action.

### 9.14 Attendance

Board Members are expected to attend meetings of the Board of Directors.
Any Officer or Director who is absent from three consecutive regular
meetings of the Board shall be deemed to be on sabbatical unless the
Board determines otherwise, and may give cause for removal under Section
9.5 of these Bylaws.

### 9.15  Sabbaticals

A Board Member may take a sabbatical from FHISO at any time by giving
written notice to the Chair or as provided in §9.14, which shall last
until written notice of the member's return is given to the Chair.  In
the case of a sabbatical by the Chair, notice shall be given to the
Vice-chair.  A Board Member on sabbatical shall be deemed absent for
purpose of Section 8.2 of these Bylaws, and any duties not otherwise
reassigned by these Bylaws may be reassigned amongst the Board for the
duration of the sabbatical as the Board sees fit.  A Board Member on
sabbatical may participate in all Board activities and retains full
voting rights, but is not counted when determining the quorum for Board
Meetings.

Article 9A: Budget
------------------

The Treasurer is responsible for developing and reviewing the annual
budget.  FHISO's budget requires Board approval, and only expenditures
within the approved budget may be authorised for payment.

The fiscal year shall be the calendar year.

Article 10: Committees
----------------------

There shall be two Standing Committees &mdash; the Technical Standing
Committee and Membership Standing Committee. The Board may create other
committees as appropriate to meet FHISO's goals. All committees shall
keep regular minutes of meetings and report the same to the Board in
accordance with the FHISO Manual. Any reference to a committee that no
longer exists shall be interpreted as referring to the Board of
Directors.

### 10.1 [Deleted]

### 10.2 FHISO Technical Standing Committee

The Technical Standing Committee (TSC) is responsible for coordinating
work towards FHISO’s technical goals.

The committee

a.  determines the overall strategy for technical work, which is
    reviewed by the Board and made available to the general membership;
b.  determines the requirements for all technical work, including the
    scope of work, expected deliverables, time and resource
    requirements; and
c.  determines technical priorities unless the Board determines
    otherwise, either on their own or following an appeal from members
    per Article 18.

Additional roles of the Technical Standing Committee are documented
in the Technical Standing Committee Charter, including

d.  defining of technical processes and policies;
e.  overseeing all technical work;
f.  assigning technical leadership roles to FHISO members as
    appropriate;
g.  defining which roles provide membership of the Technical Standing
    Committee beyond those outlined in these by-laws; and 
h.  recommending proposed standards for ratification under Article 10A.

The Technical Standing Committee Charter is subject to approval by the
Board.

There shall be no fewer than two officers of the Technical Standing
Committee; their titles and duties are set forth below. The Board may
appoint and/or remove additional members to the TSC in order to ensure
sufficient expertise or regional diversity. These are known as TSC
Special Members. The Technical Standing Committee reports to the Board.

#### 10.2.1 Technical Standing Committee Coordinator

a.  Chair meetings of the Technical Standing Committee;
b.  Oversee and report regularly to the Board about all standardisation
    and specification work, and other technical activities.  As directed
    by the Chair, report about such activities to the membership;
c.  Administer the Technical Standing Committee Charter;
d.  Work with the Membership Standing Committee Coordinator to ensure a
    full range of global standardisation and technical competency is
    available to FHISO;

#### 10.2.2 Technical Standing Committee Co-coordinator

a.  Chairs Technical Standing Committee meetings in the absence of the
    Coordinator;
b.  Ensures records are maintained reporting the activities of the
    Technical Standing Committee and other technical activities.  These
    duties may be delegated to a Technical Standing Committee Recorder,
    under the direction or management of the co-coordinator.

Those serving as Technical Standing Committee Coordinator and
Co-Coordinator will preferably be members from different regions of the
world to promote an understanding of the diverse needs of the genealogy
and family history community.

### 10.3 FHISO Membership Standing Committee

The Membership Standing Committee is responsible for working to ensure,
to the extent possible, the membership of FHISO represents all
international stakeholders, provides a full range of standardisation and
technical expertise, and works to achieve FHISO's other substantial
membership goals as expressed by the Board.

The committee

a.  administers and maintains the FHISO membership list
b.  administers the FHISO Code of Conduct
c.  oversees all Membership Projects
d.  determines the requirements for (scope of work, deliverables, time
    and resource requirements) and initiates or approves all Membership
    Project work
e.  directs and/or develops and maintains requisite Project Team
    Directives
f.  may appoint Coordinators and other Project Team members and assigns
    other roles as appropriate
g.  suspends or dissolves Membership Project Teams
h.  is responsible for resolving issues of coordination involving
    Membership Project Teams.

The Membership Standing Committee Charter and its rules for operations
and guidance (the "Membership Standing Committee Operations and Policy
Manual") are subject to approval by the Board, filed with the Secretary
and made part of the FHISO Manual.

There shall be no fewer than two officers of the Membership Standing
Committee; their titles and duties are set forth below. The Board may
appoint and/or remove additional members to the MSC in order to ensure
sufficient expertise or regional diversity. These are known as MSC
Special Members. The Membership Standing Committee reports to the Board.

#### 10.3.1 Membership Standing Committee Coordinator

a.  Chair meetings of the Membership Standing Committee;
b.  Oversee and report regularly to the Board about all Membership
    Projects and Membership Project Team activities. As directed by the
    Chair, report about such activities to the membership
c.  Administer the Membership Standing Committee Charter, and its
    Operations and Policy Manual
d.  Assist the Technical Standing Committee Coordinator in selecting
    members for Technical Project Team work
e.  Assist the Technical Standing Committee Coordinator in monitoring
    and, as practical, arranging support for the implementation of FHISO
    standards

#### 10.3.2 Membership Standing Committee Co-coordinator

a.  Chairs Membership Standing Committee meetings in the absence of the
    Coordinator
b.  Ensures records are maintained reporting the activities of the
    Membership Standing Committee and associated Membership Project
    Teams. These duties may be delegated to a Membership Standing
    Committee Recorder, under the direction or management of the
    co-coordinator

Those serving as Membership Standing Committee Coordinator and
Co-coordinator will preferably be members from different regions of the
world to promote an understanding of the diverse needs of the genealogy
and family history community.

### 10.4 [Deleted]

### 10.5 Other Board Committee Formation

The Board may create or dissolve other committees ("Board Committees")
as needed, such as fundraising, public relations, etc. At the direction
of the Chair, the functions, scope, and responsibilities of a Board
Committee, together with rules for operation and guidance (collectively,
"Committee Charter"), shall be developed. The approved Committee
Charters are filed with the Secretary, and become part of the FHISO
Manual.

Article 10A: Ratification of Standards
--------------------------------------

At the recommendation of the Technical Standing Commitee, each
recommended standard shall be made available to the general public and
its recommended status shall be announced to the FHISO membership and
the general public.

A recommended standard does not become a standard until approved by a
vote of the general FHISO membership. These votes are administered by
the Board in accordance with policies on who may vote given in Articles
4 and 5; the Board may optionally produce an additional Vote
Administration Policy to clarify the voting process. The vote should be
scheduled no less than 60 days after the recommended policy’s
recommended status was announced to the FHISO membership and no more
than 365 days after it became a recommended standard.

If the recommended standard passes by a simple majority of the votes
cast, it shall become a full standard and be returned to the Technical
Standing Committee to be published and maintained, following the process
outlined in the Technical Standing Committee Charter. If it does not
pass by a simple majority it shall be identified as a “rejected standard
proposal” and published along with the results of the vote.

Articles 11–13: [Deleted]
-------------------------

Article 14: Nominating Committee
--------------------------------

When the Board sets a date for the election of Officers, a Nominating
Committee is formed to oversee the process.  The Nominating Committee's
members are the Class A Directors in even-numbered years, and the Class
B Directors in odd-numbered years.

Article 15: Nomination and Election of Officers
-----------------------------------------------

Members eligible to vote shall annually elect or re-elect Officers.

### 15.1 Call for Nominations

The Nominating Committee shall secure proposals for nominations for
elected Officers by preparing a call for nominations distributed to all
FHISO voting members. The request shall clearly indicate, describe, and
present requirements of the positions for which nominations are being
requested, in accordance with the FHISO Manual. The request shall
contain all information necessary for Voting Members to propose
nominations.  Nominations may also be proposed by Officers.  The
Nominating Committee may make a second call for nominations to all or
parts of the FHISO membership in order to certify a properly identified
roster of eligible candidates.

### 15.2 Qualifications for Officers

Members being nominated to serve as an Officer of the Corporation should
(a) fully meet the requirements set forth by the Nominating Committee,
(b) have consented to their name being entered into candidacy; and (c)
commit to both time and resources demands required for the duration of
the term. Nominations must be submitted in a timely fashion and
accompanied by necessary biographical information.

### 15.3 [Deleted]

### 15.4 Designation of Nominees and Preparation of Ballots

Working from the proposals submitted and in accordance with the FHISO
Manual, the Nominating Committee shall work to certify a properly
identified roster of eligible candidates for the election of Officers.

### 15.5 Election Schedule

The Nominating Committee shall deliver a ballot to every FHISO Voting
Member at least thirty (30) days prior to the date set for the election.
The nominating committee shall also provide for and oversee whatever
electronic balloting procedures are required for the voting.

### 15.6 Election to Office

For each elected office, the nominee receiving the largest number of
votes shall be elected. The Secretary shall tabulate the votes,
determine the results and promptly notify the nominees of the election
results. The election results shall be announced at the Annual Business
Meeting and notice shall be made to all Voting Members.

### 15.7 Tie Vote

In the case of a tie vote, the FHISO Board shall break the tie by
majority vote at a meeting at which a quorum is present or by unanimous
written consent.

Article 16: General Membership Meetings
---------------------------------------

The Chair, with the advice of the Board of Directors, shall hold
Business Meetings or other electronic gatherings (Special Membership
Meetings) of the Voting Members as the Chair or Board of Directors deem
necessary.

### 16.1 Business Meetings

The Voting Members, when gathered electronically or otherwise for the
purpose of transacting business of the Corporation, shall constitute a
Business Meeting of the Corporation. At least one such Business Meeting,
which shall constitute the Annual General Meeting, will be called by the
Chair each fiscal year, at a time and date determined by the Board.
Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 17.

#### 16.1.1 Notice of Business Meetings

Written notice of any Business Meetings, including the Annual General
Meeting, shall be provided to Voting Members at least sixty (60) days
prior to such a meeting.

The Secretary shall make all agendas, proposals, exhibits and any
prepared remarks (collectively, the "Business Meeting Materials")
available to members at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting and
shall make arrangement for members to attend by electronic connection.

#### 16.1.2 Quorum for Business Meeting

At any Business Meeting, those Voting Members in attendance, whether
gathered electronically or otherwise, shall constitute a quorum.

#### 16.1.3 Majority Vote

Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation, or
these Bylaws, all matters before the Voting Members shall be decided by
a majority vote of the Voting Members present and voting at a meeting at
which a quorum exists.

### 16.2 Special Membership Meetings

Special membership meetings of the members shall be called by the Board
of Directors or the Chair. In addition, special membership meetings for
any lawful purpose may be called by twenty percent (20%) or more of the
voting members. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article
17.

Article 17: Conduct of Meetings
-------------------------------

### 17.1 Meeting Accessibility

Meetings shall be conducted in a manner accessible to those not present
in the same physical location, for example by phone or other electronic
communication. A reasonable effort should be made to facilitate
participation from all regions.

### 17.2 Notice of Meetings

Reasonable advance notice of meetings shall be given to intended
participants in an appropriate form.

### 17.3 Meeting Materials

A reasonable effort shall be made to ensure that any agendas, proposals,
reports, or other meeting materials are available to intended
participants in an appropriate form and sufficiently in advance of the
start of the meeting.

### 17.4 Meeting Minutes

Minutes shall be taken during the non-executive session of all meetings,
and shall be made accessible to the general membership.

Article 18: Appeals of Decisions
--------------------------------

Appeals of decisions made by individuals, committees, teams,
or groups acting as part of FHISO shall be governed by the FHISO Appeals
Process Policy as determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in
the FHISO Manual.

Article 19: [Deleted]
---------------------

Article 20: Construction
------------------------

Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of
construction, and definitions in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act
shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the
generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural,
the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes
both a corporation and a natural person.

Article 21: Dissolution
-----------------------

### 21.1 Action of Board and Members

Should membership fall below 20 members, the Board may recommend that
FHISO be dissolved. In the case of such a recommendation, the Board
shall prepare a plan of dissolution and submit it to a vote of the
members. The plan of dissolution shall be approved upon receiving an
affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast.

### 21.2 Plan of Dissolution

The plan of dissolution shall include provisions to implement the
following in the priority set forth below:

a.  Payment and discharge of all liabilities and obligations
b.  Compliance with all conditions of any applicable tax exemptions
c.  Return, transfer, or conveyance of all assets received and held upon
    condition that the assets be returned, transferred, or conveyed upon
    dissolution
d.  Transfer or conveyance of all assets received and held subject to
    limitations on their permitted use, but not held upon condition set
    forth in item c, above, to one or more organisations engaged in
    activities substantially similar to those of the Organisation
e.  Liquidation of all remaining assets with all proceeds being donated
    to one or more foundations engaged in furthering the use of
    standards in genealogy and family history and/or promoting genealogy
    and family history information technology interoperability.

Article 22: Revising the Bylaws and/or Articles of Incorporation
----------------------------------------------------------------

### 22.1 Revisions to the Bylaws

a.  A proposal to amend may be made either by:
    i.  Petition by a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the Voting
        Membership of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
    ii. Petition by a minimum of fifty-one percent (51%) of the Board of
        Directors of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
b.  All proposals will be referred to a Bylaws Review Committee, chaired
    by the Secretary, which shall be responsible for a timely
    investigation of the petition. The review committee shall obtain
    advice, as appropriate, and make the results of its investigation
    and its recommendations available to the Membership.
c.  At least thirty (30) days in advance of the Annual General Meeting
    or other business meeting of the members called by the Chair in
    which the balloting is to be conducted, the Secretary shall give
    notice of a proposed amendment to be voted on by the Membership.
    Such notice will include the proposed amendment, in final form,
    together with the required administrative ballot and details of the
    balloting procedures.
d.  The proposed amendment shall pass if a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
    those participating in the balloting vote in favor of the amendment.
    The amendment shall be effective as of the date of approval, or at
    such later date as provided in the amendment itself.

### 22.2 Trivial Corrections to the Bylaws

Typographical errors or errors of omission, consistency or terminology
use shall be corrected, by or with the concurrence of the Secretary,
without recourse to a ballot of the membership.

### 22.3 Revisions to the Articles of Incorporation

a.  A proposal to amend may be made either by:
    i.  Petition by a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the Voting
        Membership of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
    ii. Petition by a minimum of fifty-one percent (51%) of the Board of
        Directors of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
b.  All proposals will be referred to an Articles of Incorporation
    Review Committee, chaired by the Secretary, which shall be
    responsible for a timely investigation of the petition. The review
    committee shall obtain advice, as appropriate, and make the results
    of its investigation and its recommendations available to the
    Membership.
c.  At least thirty (30) days in advance of the Annual General Meeting
    or other special meeting called by the Chair in which the balloting
    is to be conducted, the Secretary shall give notice of a proposed
    amendment to be voted on by the Membership. Such notice will include
    the proposed amendment, in final form, together with the required
    administrative ballot and details of the balloting procedures.
d.  The proposed amendment shall pass if a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
    those participating in the balloting vote in favor of the amendment.
    The amendment shall be effective as of the earliest date so
    permitted by the laws of the State of Arizona.

Article 23: Severability
------------------------

If any provision of these Bylaws is held to be invalid or unenforceable
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and
effect.

Article 24: Extended Organisational Period
------------------------------------------

The initial period of operation of the FHISO shall be known as the
"Extended Organisational Period".

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Technical Standing
Committee will establish full functionality, and the Organisation's
Membership will become populated, balanced and diversified as to
multi-stakeholder interests and regional diversity. Once the Board has
determined by majority vote that these objectives have been achieved,
they will publicly announce that decision; said public announcement
shall be deemed to terminate the Extended Organisational Period and
Article 24 shall be stricken from the bylaws.

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Board shall have the
authority to create positions, delegate authority and fill vacancies.
The term of office of Officers is deemed to begin once the Extended
Organisational Period ends.

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Board may, as necessary,
amend the bylaws to fully support organisational requirements without
the consent of an Annual General Meeting or other business meeting. The
requirement to hold an Annual General Meeting is waived during the
Extended Organisational Period.
