---
title: Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
date: 19 September 2018
...
Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
=================================================================

*Enacted on 1 September 2013, and last updated on [19 September
2018](http://fhiso.org/minutes/2018-09-19/).*

Article 1: Name
---------------

The name of the corporation shall be Family History Information
Standards Organisation, Inc., herein after "FHISO," the "Organisation"
or the "Corporation."

Article 2: [Deleted]
--------------------

Article 3: Mission, Goal, and Scope
-----------------------------------

### 3.1 Mission

FHISO brings together stakeholders from the full community for the
purpose of developing open, international, technology standards and
supporting documentation and services to benefit the community. All
members ascribe to, and the Organisation operates in accordance with,
the Code of Conduct—we organise ourselves and operate without prejudice
or bias toward any company, organisation, product, service, individual,
ethnic group, culture or country.

### 3.2 Goal

FHISO shall work transparently and collaboratively to identify, develop,
disseminate, and maintain voluntary, open, consensus-based technical
standards, including necessary supporting documentation and services.
The standards shall be publicly available at no or nominal cost on a
non-discriminatory basis. Anyone may implement the standards for any
purpose, without royalty or license fees. These rights, granted to users
or implementers, may not be revoked by FHISO.

### 3.3 Scope

The scope of FHISO's work encompasses all aspects of technical standards
and guidelines used to manage information in genealogy and family
history:

a.  Identify existing technical, scientific data practices or emerging
    trends in the international community that require standardisation.
b.  Provide a collaborative environment for innovation and problem
    solving.
c.  Prepare new international standards and guidelines.
d.  Publish and disseminate standards and guidelines.
e.  Provide education and support to encourage adoption and use of the
    published standards.
f.  Review, modify, reaffirm or terminate, as appropriate, existing
    standards or guidelines.
g.  Review and participate in developing relevant regional international
    standards.
h.  Monitor interoperability between implementations and, if relevant,
    develop test suites and cases or manage a certification process for
    selected FHISO standards.
i.  Cooperate with other organisations developing standards that fall
    within the scope of, or may relate to, FHISO standards.

Article 3A: Non-discrimination Policy
-------------------------------------

FHISO does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, colour,
creed, gender, gender expression, age, national origin, disability,
marital status, sexual orientation or military status, in any of its
activities or operations.  These activities include, but are not limited
to, dealing with the public, selection of volunteers and vendors, hiring
and firing of staff, and provision of services.

Article 4: Membership
---------------------

Membership shall be voluntary and open to all who are active, interested
in or materially affected by technology standards for genealogy and
family history.  FHISO membership shall not be conditional on any other
memberships or associations, nor unreasonably restricted on the basis of
technical qualifications or other such requirements.

### 4.1 Code of Conduct

All members shall agree to abide by the FHISO Code of Conduct, which may be
amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.


### 4.2 Membership Categories

Members shall be classified as Individual Members or Organisational
Members.

#### 4.2.1 Individual Members

An Individual Member shall be a natural person and is entitled to a
single vote.

#### 4.2.2 Organisational Members

An Organisational Member shall be a corporation or other organisation,
and is entitled to appoint one or more Organisational Member
Representative each of whom is entitled to a single vote. An Individual
Member may be appointed as an Organisational Member Representative but
only gets a single vote.

The Board may establish different classes of Organisational Member,
which may have differing Membership Fees and be entitled to appoint
different numbers of Organisational Member Representatives. Any change
to the number of Organisational Member Representatives which an
Organisational Member is entitled to appoint shall only take effect when
their annual Membership Fee next becomes due.

Organisational Members shall identify in writing those individuals
designated as Organisational Member Representatives with confirmation
that each has agreed to abide by the Code of Conduct. FHISO must receive
timely notification of any changes to the designated Organisational
Member Representatives in writing.

### 4.3 Membership Applications

All members shall submit a completed membership application without
falsification and pay the applicable Membership Fee. The Board approves
the form of membership applications, determines the annual Membership
Fee, and may establish other membership goals and policies. The Board
has the authority to waive the Membership Fee on a case-by-case basis.

Article 5: Participation
------------------------

### 5.1 Voting Privileges and Member Participation

Individual Members and Organisational Member Representatives shall be
eligible to participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation,
if they are determined to be "in good standing" as defined by the Board
and set forth in the FHISO Manual. New applicants shall be eligible to
participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation as Individual
Members or Organisational Member Representatives upon submitting the
application, remitting the payment of annual dues, and otherwise meeting
the criteria to be "in good standing."

The Board of Directors may establish a waiting period of not more than
60 days from the receipt of a new member's completed application before
a new Individual Member or Organisational Member Representative becomes
eligible to vote. An Individual Member or Organisational Member
Representative who is eligible to vote is referred to as a Voting
Member.

### 5.2 Associate Participation

An Associate is any natural person who has an expressed interest in
technology standards for genealogy and family history and has agreed to
the Code of Conduct, but who is neither an Individual Member nor an
Organisational Member Representative of FHISO. Associates may be invited
to participate in activities managed by FHISO.

### 5.3 Founding Members

Individuals and Organisations who become members of FHISO during the
extended organisational period will become designated as "Founding
Members." Organisational Member Representatives during this period will
also become designated as "Founding Members."

The Board may from time to time confer benefits on Founding Members in
accordance with the FHISO Manual and consistent with Article 6 herein.

Article 6: Supporters and Benefactors
-------------------------------------

In accordance with the FHISO Manual, the Board may establish guidelines
and confer benefits on members or non-members, whether individuals or
organisations, in accordance with the Organisation's purposes, including
but not limited to recognition of those individuals or organisations who
provide exceptional support to FHISO. Benefits conferred shall not
affect voting rights, nor shall they increase or decrease the number of
or weight of votes otherwise granted by these bylaws.

Article 7: Registered Office and Registered Agents
--------------------------------------------------

### 7.1 Registered Office

The Organisation shall continuously maintain a registered office in the
state of Arizona at a place designated by the Board of Directors. The
principal office of the Corporation, and such other offices as it may
establish, shall be located at such place(s), either within or outside
the state of Arizona, as may be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.2 Registered Agent

The Organisation shall continuously maintain within the state of Arizona
a registered agent, which shall be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.3 Changes

Any changes in the registered office or the registered agent of the
Organisation shall be accomplished in compliance with the Arizona
Nonprofit Corporation Act and as provided by these Bylaws.

Article 8: Officers
-------------------

### 8.1 Officers

The Officers of the Corporation shall be the Chair, Vice-chair,
Treasurer, Secretary, Technical Coordinator, Technical Co-coordinator,
Membership Coordinator, Membership Co-coordinator and optionally, at the
discretion of the Board, an Assistant Secretary.

### 8.2 Duties

a.  Chair. The Chair is the chief officer of the Corporation and, under
    the jurisdiction and supervision of the Board of Directors, directs
    the Corporation. The Chair serves as chair of the Board of
    Directors and presides over meetings. The Chair may also serve as an
    ex officio member without right to vote on all Board committees. The
    Chair, with the approval of the Board of Directors, may discharge
    one or more members of any Committee.
b.  Vice-chair. The Vice-chair shall, in the absence of the Chair,
    preside over meetings and temporarily assume the responsibilities of
    the Chair.  In the absence or temporary vacancy of both the Chair
    and Vice-chair, another member of the Board shall be appointed to
    assume these duties by majority vote of the Board.
c.  Treasurer.  The Treasurer shall assist in the development of the annual
    budget and the financial plan and shall assist in raising funds for
    the Corporation's operation.  The Treasurer is responsible for
    developing and reviewing fiscal procedures, and shall assist any
    committee in the preparation and administration of committee or
    project budgets.  In the absence or temporary vacancy of the
    Treasurer, the Secretary shall serve as Treasurer.  In the absence
    or temporary vacancy of both the Treasurer and Secretary, another
    member of the Board shall be appointed to assume these duties by
    majority vote of the Board.
d.  Secretary.  The Secretary is also the Chief Transparency Officer of
    the Organisation.  The Secretary shall maintain the FHISO Manual,
    agendas and minutes of Board and Member meetings, and such other
    records of the Corporation as required by Arizona Law, these bylaws,
    the Articles of Incorporation or FHISO Manual. In the absence or
    temporary vacancy of the Secretary, the Vice-chair shall serve as
    Secretary.  In the absence or temporary vacancy of both the
    Secretary and Vice-chair, another member of the Board shall be
    appointed to assume these duties by majority vote of the Board.
e.  Technical Coordinator. The duties of the Technical Coordinator are
    listed in Section 10.2.1 of these Bylaws.
f.  Technical Co-coordinator. The duties of the Technical Co-coordinator
    are listed in Section 10.2.2 of these Bylaws.
g.  Membership Coordinator. The Membership Coordinator is responsible
    for working to ensure, to the extent possible, the membership of
    FHISO represents all international stakeholders, provides a full
    range of standardisation and technical expertise, and works to
    achieve FHISO's other substantial membership goals as expressed by
    the Board.  The Membership Coordinator shall maintain the FHISO
    membership list, and administer the FHISO Code of Conduct.  The
    Membership Coordinator also assists the Technical Standing Committee
    in selecting members for technical work, and in monitoring
    and, as practical, arranging support for the implementation of FHISO
    standards.
h.  Membership Co-coordinator. The Membership Co-coordinator shall
    assist the Membership Coordinator in the latter's duties and
    responsibilities.
i.  Assistant Secretary.  The Assistant Secretary shall assist the
    Secretary and Treasurer in the execution of their duties, as
    directed by the Board of Directors.

### 8.3 Terms of Office

Officers other than the Assistant Secretary shall be elected for a
two-year term by FHISO's Voting Members in accordance with Article 15.

a.  The Chair, Treasurer, Technical Co-coordinator, and Membership
    Coordinator serve as Class A Directors.
b.  The Vice-chair. Secretary, Technical Coordinator, and Membership
    Co-coordinator serve as Class B Directors.

An Assistant Secretary may be appointed by the Board under Section 8.3
of these Bylaws.  The Assistant Secretary has no fixed term of office
and may be removed by majority vote of the Board at any time without
cause.  The office of Assistant Secretary may be left vacant at the
direction of the Board.

### 8.4 [Deleted]

### 8.5 Officer Succession and Term Limits

#### 8.5.1 Succession

a.  In the event of a vacancy in the position of the Chair, the
    Vice-chair shall succeed to the position of Chair and so serve for
    the duration of the unexpired term of the vacated office. 
b.  In the event of a vacancy in the position of Technical Coordinator,
    the Technical Co-coordinator shall succeed to the position of
    Technical Coordinator and so serve for the duration of the unexpired
    term of the vacated office.
c.  In the event of a vacancy in the position of Membership Coordinator,
    the Membership Co-coordinator shall succeed to the position of
    Membership Coordinator and so serve for the duration of the
    unexpired term of the vacated office.

### 8.6 Officer Vacancy

When a vacancy exists among the Officers listed in Section 8.3, the
Secretary, or acting Secretary, shall compile a list of qualified
candidates by soliciting nominations from the remaining Board members.
The Board will meet in executive session to deliberate and vote about
the qualified nominees until a majority vote of the board elects the new
officer, who shall serve out the unexpired term of the vacated office.
If reasonable notice has been provided in accordance with the FHISO
Manual, then for the purpose of meeting to fill officer vacancies, a
quorum of the Board is preferred, but not required. 

Article 9: Board of Directors
-----------------------------

### 9.1 General Powers and Duties

The governing body of FHISO shall be the Board of Directors ("Board").
The Board shall manage and control FHISO's affairs and property, it
shall establish member policies and set member dues and be responsible
for all other aspects of FHISO's policies and direction. The Board shall
exercise all powers and perform all duties that are necessary or
convenient to carry out FHISO's purposes, except as may be otherwise
provided it in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act or the Articles of
Incorporation.

### 9.2 Composition

The composition of the Board shall, in so far as possible, reflect
FHISO's international scope and purpose including that it shall be
representative of the varied stakeholder interests and provide required
technical, standardisation and project management expertise.

### 9.3 Size and Constituency

The Board consists of the Officers of FHISO, who shall be no fewer than
three in number.  All members of the Board shall have an equal vote.

### 9.4 [Deleted]

### 9.5 Resignation; Removal

A Director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chair.
A member of the Board may be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of
the Board.

### 9.6 [Deleted]

### 9.7 Board Member Compensation

The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for serving as
Directors of the Organisation.

### 9.8 Regular Board Meetings

The Board shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly, to be called
as agreed at previous Board Meetings.

### 9.9 Special Board Meetings

The Chair, Vice-chair or one-third of the Board may call a special
meeting of Board.  At least two days' notice shall be given.

### 9.10 Conduct of Meetings

Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 17.

Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chair,
or, in the absence of the Chair, by the Vice-Chair, or in the absence of
these officers, by a Chairperson chosen by a majority of the voting
Board members in attendance.

### 9.11 Quorum of the Board

Three-fifths of those voting members of the Board who are not taking a
sabbatical shall constitute a quorum for transacting business at any
meeting, except that if a quorum is not present at a meeting, a majority
of the voting Board members present may adjourn the meeting to another
time without notice.

### 9.12 Majority Vote

Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or
these Bylaws, all matters before the Board of Directors shall be decided
by a majority vote of the Board members present and voting at a meeting
at which a quorum exists.

### 9.13 Board Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting

Any action which may be taken by majority vote at a Board Meeting may be
taken without a meeting provided that:

a.  a written proposal is made available to all Board members;
b.  written consent is received from sufficient Board members to
    constitute a quorum; and
c.  no request is made under Section 9.8 of these Bylaws to hold a Board
    Meeting to discuss the proposed action.

### 9.14 Attendance

Board Members are expected to attend meetings of the Board of Directors.
Any Director who is absent from three consecutive regular meetings of
the Board shall be deemed to be on sabbatical unless the Board
determines otherwise, and may give cause for removal under Section 9.5
of these Bylaws.

### 9.15  Sabbaticals

A Board Member may take a sabbatical from FHISO at any time by giving
written notice to the Chair or as provided in §9.14, which shall last
until written notice of the member's return is given to the Chair.  In
the case of a sabbatical by the Chair, notice shall be given to the
Vice-chair.  A Board Member on sabbatical shall be deemed absent for
purpose of Section 8.2 of these Bylaws, and any duties not otherwise
reassigned by these Bylaws may be reassigned amongst the Board for the
duration of the sabbatical as the Board sees fit.  A Board Member on
sabbatical may participate in all Board activities and retains full
voting rights, but is not counted when determining the quorum for Board
Meetings.

Article 9A: Budget
------------------

The Treasurer is responsible for developing and reviewing the annual
budget.  FHISO's budget requires Board approval, and only expenditures
within the approved budget may be authorised for payment.

The fiscal year shall be the calendar year.

Article 9B: The FHISO Manual
----------------------------

The Secretary is responsible for maintaining the FHISO Manual,
containing the various policies and governance documents approved and
published by the Board.

Article 10: Committees
----------------------

There shall be one Standing Committee &mdash; the Technical Standing
Committee. The Board may create other committees as appropriate to meet
FHISO's goals. All committees shall keep regular minutes of meetings and
report the same to the Board in accordance with the FHISO Manual. Any
reference to a committee that no longer exists shall be interpreted as
referring to the Board of Directors.

### 10.1 [Deleted]

### 10.2 FHISO Technical Standing Committee

The Technical Standing Committee (TSC) is responsible for coordinating
work towards FHISO's technical goals.

The committee

a.  determines the overall strategy for technical work, which is
    reviewed by the Board and made available to the general membership;
b.  determines the requirements for all technical work, including the
    scope of work, expected deliverables, time and resource
    requirements; and
c.  determines technical priorities unless the Board determines
    otherwise, either on their own or following an appeal from members
    per Article 18.

Additional roles of the Technical Standing Committee are documented
in the Technical Standing Committee Charter, including

d.  defining of technical processes and policies;
e.  overseeing all technical work;
f.  assigning technical leadership roles to FHISO members as
    appropriate;
g.  defining which roles provide Technical Standing Committee membership
    beyond those outlined in these by-laws; and 
h.  recommending proposed standards for ratification under Article 10A.

The Technical Standing Committee Charter is subject to approval by the
Board.

There shall be no fewer than two officers of the Technical Standing
Committee; their titles and duties are set forth below. The Board may
appoint and/or remove additional members to the TSC in order to ensure
sufficient expertise or regional diversity. These are known as TSC
Special Members. The Technical Standing Committee reports to the Board.

#### 10.2.1 Technical Coordinator

a.  Chair meetings of the Technical Standing Committee;
b.  Oversee and report regularly to the Board about all standardisation
    and specification work, and other technical activities.  As directed
    by the Chair, report about such activities to the membership;
c.  Administer the Technical Standing Committee Charter;
d.  Work with the Membership Coordinator to ensure a full range of
    global standardisation and technical competency is available to
    FHISO.

#### 10.2.2 Technical Co-coordinator

a.  Chairs Technical Standing Committee meetings in the absence of the
    Coordinator;
b.  Ensures records are maintained reporting the activities of the
    Technical Standing Committee and other technical activities.  These
    duties may be delegated to a Technical Standing Committee Recorder,
    under the direction or management of the co-coordinator.

### 10.3–4 [Deleted]

### 10.5 Other Board Committee Formation

The Board may create or dissolve other committees ("Board Committees")
as needed, such as fundraising, public relations, etc. At the direction
of the Chair, the functions, scope, and responsibilities of a Board
Committee, together with rules for operation and guidance (collectively,
"Committee Charter"), shall be developed. The approved Committee
Charters are filed with the Secretary, and become part of the FHISO
Manual.

Article 10A: Ratification of Standards
--------------------------------------

At the recommendation of the Technical Standing Commitee, each
recommended standard shall be made available to the general public and
its recommended status shall be announced to the FHISO membership and
the general public.

A recommended standard does not become a standard until approved by a
vote of FHISO's Voting Members. These votes are administered by
the Board in accordance with policies on who may vote given in Articles
4 and 5; the Board may optionally produce an additional Vote
Administration Policy to clarify the voting process. The vote should be
scheduled no less than 60 days after the recommended policy's
recommended status was announced to the FHISO membership and no more
than 365 days after it became a recommended standard.

If the recommended standard passes by a simple majority of the votes
cast, it shall become a full standard and be returned to the Technical
Standing Committee to be published and maintained, following the process
outlined in the Technical Standing Committee Charter. If it does not
pass by a simple majority it shall be identified as a “rejected standard
proposal” and published along with the results of the vote.

Articles 11–13: [Deleted]
-------------------------

Article 14: Nominating Committee
--------------------------------

When the Board sets a date for the election of Directors, a Nominating
Committee is formed to oversee the process.  The Nominating Committee's
members are the Class A Directors in even-numbered years, and the Class
B Directors in odd-numbered years.

Article 15: Nomination and Election of Directors
------------------------------------------------

Voting Members shall annually elect Officers to serve on a Board of
Directors.  Class A Directors are elected in odd-numbered years, and
Class B Directors are elected in even-numbered years.

### 15.1 Call for Nominations

The Nominating Committee shall secure proposals for nominations for
elected Officers by preparing a call for nominations and distributing it
to all Voting Members.  The request shall contain all information
necessary for Voting Members to nominate candidates, and shall state
when the call for nominations closes which shall be no less than 14 days
after the distribution of the call for nominations.

The Nominating Committee may make additional calls for nominations if in
their judgement this is necessary to get a full roster of eligible
candidates.  Additional calls for nominations shall also state when they
close, but need not run for 14 days.

### 15.2 Qualifications for Officers

Members being nominated to serve as an elected Officer of the
Corporation should (a) be a Voting Member of FHISO; (b) have consented
to their name being entered into candidacy; and (c) commit to both time
and resources demands required for the duration of the term. 

Nominations must be submitted in a timely fashion and should be
accompanied by brief biographical information on the candidate to be
included in the ballot.  Nominations shall only be made by Voting
Members.  A person may nominate themself.  A person may not be a
candidate for more than one elected Office in any given election.

### 15.3 [Deleted]

### 15.4 Designation of Nominees and Preparation of Ballots

The Nominating Committee shall produce a ballot for each Office
being elected.  All candidate who have been properly nominated
and who are eligible per Section 15.2 of these Bylaws shall be
included on the ballot.  

The ballot shall also include a statement encouraging members to
consider both individual qualifications for the position and increasing
the diversity of the Board.

### 15.4A Permitted Voting Systems

The Nominating Committee shall determine which of the Permitted Voting
Systems will be used in the election, and shall include this information
clearly on the ballot.

Permitted Voting Systems include the "first past the post" and "instant
runoff" systems, together with any other voting systems that have been
proposed by the Board and approved a majority vote of the membership
prior to the ballot being distributed.

### 15.5 Election Schedule

The Nominating Committee shall deliver a ballot to every FHISO Voting
Member at least 14 days prior to the date set for the election.  The
Nominating Committee shall also provide for and oversee whatever
electronic balloting procedures are required for the voting.

### 15.6 Election to Office

For each elected office, the nominee receiving the winning vote under
the specified voting system shall be elected. There is no minimum number
of votes which needs to be cast for the election to be valid.  The
Nominating Committee shall tabulate the votes, determine the results and
promptly notify the nominees of the election results. The election
results shall be announced at the Annual Business Meeting and notice
shall be made to all Voting Members.

### 15.7 Tie Vote

In the case of a tie vote, the FHISO Board shall break the tie by
majority vote.

Article 16: General Membership Meetings
---------------------------------------

The Chair, with the advice of the Board of Directors, shall hold
Business Meetings or other electronic gatherings (Special Membership
Meetings) of the Voting Members as the Chair or Board of Directors deem
necessary.

### 16.1 Business Meetings

The Voting Members, when gathered electronically or otherwise for the
purpose of transacting business of the Corporation, shall constitute a
Business Meeting of the Corporation. At least one such Business Meeting,
which shall constitute the Annual General Meeting, will be called by the
Chair each fiscal year, at a time and date determined by the Board.
Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 17.

#### 16.1.1 Notice of Business Meetings

Written notice of any Business Meetings, including the Annual General
Meeting, shall be provided to Voting Members at least sixty (60) days
prior to such a meeting.

The Secretary shall make all agendas, proposals, exhibits and any
prepared remarks (collectively, the "Business Meeting Materials")
available to members at least thirty (30) days prior to the meeting and
shall make arrangement for members to attend by electronic connection.

#### 16.1.2 Quorum for Business Meeting

Five Voting Members or 5% of the FHISO's Voting Members, whichever is
greater, shall constitute a quorum for a Business Meeting.

#### 16.1.3 Majority Vote

Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation, or
these Bylaws, all matters before the Voting Members shall be decided by
a majority vote of the Voting Members present and voting at a meeting at
which a quorum exists.

### 16.2 Special Membership Meetings

Special membership meetings of the members shall be called by the Board
of Directors or the Chair. In addition, special membership meetings for
any lawful purpose may be called by twenty percent (20%) or more of the
Voting Members. Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article
17.

Article 17: Conduct of Meetings
-------------------------------

### 17.1 Meeting Accessibility

Meetings shall be conducted in a manner accessible to those not present
in the same physical location, for example by phone or other electronic
communication. A reasonable effort should be made to facilitate
participation from all regions.

### 17.2 Notice of Meetings

Reasonable advance notice of meetings shall be given to intended
participants in an appropriate form.

### 17.3 Meeting Materials

A reasonable effort shall be made to ensure that any agendas, proposals,
reports, or other meeting materials are available to intended
participants in an appropriate form and sufficiently in advance of the
start of the meeting.

### 17.4 Meeting Minutes

Minutes shall be taken during the non-executive session of all meetings,
and shall be made accessible to the general membership.

Article 18: Appeals of Decisions
--------------------------------

Appeals of decisions made by individuals, committees, teams,
or groups acting as part of FHISO shall be governed by the FHISO Appeals
Process Policy as determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in
the FHISO Manual.

Article 19: [Deleted]
---------------------

Article 20: Construction
------------------------

Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of
construction, and definitions in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act
shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the
generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural,
the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes
both a corporation and a natural person.

Article 21: Dissolution
-----------------------

### 21.1 Action of Board and Members

Should membership fall below 20 members, the Board may recommend that
FHISO be dissolved. In the case of such a recommendation, the Board
shall prepare a plan of dissolution and submit it to a vote of the
members. The plan of dissolution shall be approved upon receiving an
affirmative vote of two-thirds (2/3) of the votes cast.

### 21.2 Plan of Dissolution

The plan of dissolution shall include provisions to implement the
following in the priority set forth below:

a.  Payment and discharge of all liabilities and obligations
b.  Compliance with all conditions of any applicable tax exemptions
c.  Return, transfer, or conveyance of all assets received and held upon
    condition that the assets be returned, transferred, or conveyed upon
    dissolution
d.  Transfer or conveyance of all assets received and held subject to
    limitations on their permitted use, but not held upon condition set
    forth in item c, above, to one or more organisations engaged in
    activities substantially similar to those of the Organisation
e.  Liquidation of all remaining assets with all proceeds being donated
    to one or more foundations engaged in furthering the use of
    standards in genealogy and family history and/or promoting genealogy
    and family history information technology interoperability.

Article 22: Revising the Bylaws and/or Articles of Incorporation
----------------------------------------------------------------

### 22.1 Revisions to the Bylaws

a.  A proposal to amend may be made either by:
    i.  Petition by a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the Voting
        Members of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
    ii. Petition by a minimum of fifty-one percent (51%) of the Board of
        Directors of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
b.  All proposals will be referred to a Bylaws Review Committee, chaired
    by the Secretary, which shall be responsible for a timely
    investigation of the petition. The review committee shall obtain
    advice, as appropriate, and make the results of its investigation
    and its recommendations available to the Membership.
c.  At least thirty (30) days in advance of the Annual General Meeting
    or other business meeting of the members called by the Chair in
    which the balloting is to be conducted, the Secretary shall give
    notice of a proposed amendment to be voted on by the Membership.
    Such notice will include the proposed amendment, in final form,
    together with the required administrative ballot and details of the
    balloting procedures.
d.  The proposed amendment shall pass if a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
    those participating in the balloting vote in favor of the amendment.
    The amendment shall be effective as of the date of approval, or at
    such later date as provided in the amendment itself.

### 22.2 Trivial Corrections to the Bylaws

Typographical errors or errors of omission, consistency or terminology
use shall be corrected, by or with the concurrence of the Secretary,
without recourse to a ballot of the membership.

### 22.3 Revisions to the Articles of Incorporation

a.  A proposal to amend may be made either by:
    i.  Petition by a minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the Voting
        Members of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
    ii. Petition by a minimum of fifty-one percent (51%) of the Board of
        Directors of FHISO, in writing, filed with the Chair.
b.  All proposals will be referred to an Articles of Incorporation
    Review Committee, chaired by the Secretary, which shall be
    responsible for a timely investigation of the petition. The review
    committee shall obtain advice, as appropriate, and make the results
    of its investigation and its recommendations available to the
    Membership.
c.  At least thirty (30) days in advance of the Annual General Meeting
    or other special meeting called by the Chair in which the balloting
    is to be conducted, the Secretary shall give notice of a proposed
    amendment to be voted on by the Membership. Such notice will include
    the proposed amendment, in final form, together with the required
    administrative ballot and details of the balloting procedures.
d.  The proposed amendment shall pass if a two-thirds (2/3) majority of
    those participating in the balloting vote in favor of the amendment.
    The amendment shall be effective as of the earliest date so
    permitted by the laws of the State of Arizona.

Article 23: Severability
------------------------

If any provision of these Bylaws is held to be invalid or unenforceable
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and
effect.

Article 24: Extended Organisational Period
------------------------------------------

The initial period of operation of the FHISO shall be known as the
"Extended Organisational Period".

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Technical Standing
Committee will establish full functionality, and the Organisation's
Membership will become populated, balanced and diversified as to
multi-stakeholder interests and regional diversity. Once the Board has
determined by majority vote that these objectives have been achieved,
they will publicly announce that decision; said public announcement
shall be deemed to terminate the Extended Organisational Period and
Article 24 shall be stricken from the bylaws.

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Board shall have the
authority to create positions, delegate authority and fill vacancies.
The term of office of all elected Officers may be extended until the
Extended Organisational Period ends, after which they shall come up for
election per Article 15.

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Board may, as necessary,
amend the bylaws to fully support organisational requirements without
the consent of an Annual General Meeting or other business meeting. The
requirement to hold an Annual General Meeting is waived during the
Extended Organisational Period.

Proposed standards shall not be ratified as official FHISO standards
during the Extended Organisational Period.
