---
title: Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
date: 2 October 2019
...
Bylaws of Family History Information Standards Organisation, Inc.
=================================================================

*Enacted on 21 September 2013, and last updated on 
[2 October 2019](http://fhiso.org/minutes/2019-10-02/).*

Article 1: Name
---------------

The name of the corporation shall be Family History Information
Standards Organisation, Inc., herein after "FHISO," the "Organisation"
or the "Corporation."

Article 2: [Deleted]
--------------------

Article 3: Mission and Scope
----------------------------

### 3.1 Mission

FHISO's mission is to bring together individuals, organisations and
companies of all sizes to collaborate on open standards, supporting
documentation and services on the digital representation, processing and
exchange of data by genealogists and family historians worldwide.

### [Deleted]

### 3.3 Scope

The scope of FHISO's work encompasses all aspects of technical standards
and guidelines used to manage information in genealogy and family
history:

a.  Identify existing technical, scientific data practices or emerging
    trends in the international community that require standardisation.
b.  Provide a collaborative environment for innovation and problem
    solving.
c.  Prepare new international standards and guidelines.
d.  Publish and disseminate standards and guidelines.
e.  Provide education and support to encourage adoption and use of the
    published standards.
f.  Review, modify, reaffirm or terminate, as appropriate, existing
    standards or guidelines.
g.  Review and participate in developing relevant regional international
    standards.
h.  Monitor interoperability between implementations and, if relevant,
    develop test suites and cases or manage a certification process for
    selected FHISO standards.
i.  Cooperate with other organisations developing standards that fall
    within the scope of, or may relate to, FHISO standards.

Article 3A: Non-discrimination Policy
-------------------------------------

FHISO does not and shall not discriminate on the basis of race, colour,
creed, gender, gender expression, age, national origin, disability,
marital status, sexual orientation or military status, in any of its
activities or operations.  These activities include, but are not limited
to, dealing with the public, selection of volunteers and vendors, hiring
and firing of staff, and provision of services.

Article 4: Membership
---------------------

Membership shall be voluntary and open to all who are active in, interested
in or materially affected by technology standards for genealogy and
family history.  FHISO membership shall not be conditional on any other
memberships or associations, nor unreasonably restricted on the basis of
technical qualifications or other such requirements.

### 4.1 Code of Conduct

All members shall agree to abide by the FHISO Code of Conduct, which may be
amended from time to time by the Board of Directors.


### 4.2 Membership Categories

Members shall be classified as Individual Members or Organisational
Members.

#### 4.2.1 Individual Members

An Individual Member shall be a natural person and is entitled to a
single vote.

#### 4.2.2 Organisational Members

An Organisational Member shall be a corporation or other organisation,
and is entitled to appoint one or more Organisational Member
Representative each of whom is entitled to a single vote. An Individual
Member may be appointed as an Organisational Member Representative but
only gets a single vote.

The Board may establish different classes of Organisational Member,
which may have differing Membership Fees and be entitled to appoint
different numbers of Organisational Member Representatives. Any change
to the number of Organisational Member Representatives which an
Organisational Member is entitled to appoint shall only take effect when
their annual Membership Fee next becomes due.

Organisational Members shall identify in writing those individuals
designated as Organisational Member Representatives with confirmation
that each has agreed to abide by the Code of Conduct. FHISO must receive
timely notification of any changes to the designated Organisational
Member Representatives in writing.

### 4.3 Membership Applications

All members shall submit a completed membership application without
falsification and pay the applicable Membership Fee. The Board approves
the form of membership applications, determines the annual Membership
Fee, and may establish other membership goals and policies. The Board
has the authority to waive the Membership Fee on a case-by-case basis.

Article 5: Participation
------------------------

### 5.1 Voting Privileges and Member Participation

Individual Members and Organisational Member Representatives shall be
eligible to participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation,
if they are determined to be "in good standing" as defined by the Board
and set forth in the FHISO Manual. New applicants shall be eligible to
participate in meetings and activities of the Organisation as Individual
Members or Organisational Member Representatives upon submitting the
application, remitting the payment of annual dues, and otherwise meeting
the criteria to be "in good standing."

The Board of Directors may establish a waiting period of not more than
60 days from the receipt of a new member's completed application before
a new Individual Member or Organisational Member Representative becomes
eligible to vote. An Individual Member or Organisational Member
Representative who is eligible to vote is referred to as a Voting
Member.

### 5.2 Associate Participation

An Associate is any natural person who has an expressed interest in
technology standards for genealogy and family history and has agreed to
the Code of Conduct, but who is neither an Individual Member nor an
Organisational Member Representative of FHISO. Associates may be invited
to participate in activities managed by FHISO.

### 5.3 Founding Members

Individuals and Organisations who become members of FHISO during the
extended organisational period will become designated as "Founding
Members." Organisational Member Representatives during this period will
also become designated as "Founding Members."

The Board may from time to time confer benefits on Founding Members in
accordance with the FHISO Manual and consistent with Article 6 herein.

Article 6: Supporters and Benefactors
-------------------------------------

In accordance with the FHISO Manual, the Board may establish guidelines
and confer benefits on members or non-members, whether individuals or
organisations, in accordance with the Organisation's purposes, including
but not limited to recognition of those individuals or organisations who
provide exceptional support to FHISO. Benefits conferred shall not
affect voting rights, nor shall they increase or decrease the number of
or weight of votes otherwise granted by these bylaws.

Article 7: Registered Office and Registered Agents
--------------------------------------------------

### 7.1 Registered Office

The Organisation shall continuously maintain a registered office in the
state of Arizona at a place designated by the Board of Directors. The
principal office of the Corporation, and such other offices as it may
establish, shall be located at such place(s), either within or outside
the state of Arizona, as may be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.2 Registered Agent

The Organisation shall continuously maintain within the state of Arizona
a registered agent, which shall be designated by the Board of Directors.

### 7.3 Changes

Any changes in the registered office or the registered agent of the
Organisation shall be accomplished in compliance with the Arizona
Nonprofit Corporation Act and as provided by these Bylaws.

Article 8: Officers, Coordinators and Co-coordinators
-----------------------------------------------------

### 8.1 Officers

The Officers of the Corporation shall be the Chair, Vice-chair,
Treasurer, Secretary and optionally, at the discretion of the Board, an
Assistant Secretary.

### 8.1A Coordinators and Co-coordinators

Coordinators and Co-coordinators are Directors who are tasked with
overseeing specific aspects of FHISO's work, and regularly reporting
back to the Board on their remit.  There shall be a Technical
Coordinator and a Technical Co-coordinator, together with such other
Coordinators and Co-coordinators that the Board may establish by
majority vote.

The Board may abolish any Coordinator or Co-coordinator position except
the positions of Technical Coordinator and Technical Co-coordinator.  If
the incumbent Coordinator or Co-coordinator was elected to that position
as a Directly Elected Office, then a two-thirds vote of the Board is
required to abolish the position, and the Director holding that position
remains on the Board as a Director at Large.  Otherwise a simple
majority vote is required.

### 8.2 Duties

a.  Chair. The Chair is the head of FHISO and has overall responsibility
    for the smooth running of the Organisation. The Chair should
    normally serve as the public face of the Organisation and be active
    in promoting FHISO's activities to the genealogical community. The
    Chair is the chief officer of the Corporation and, under the
    jurisdiction and supervision of the Board of Directors, directs the
    Corporation. The Chair serves as chair of the Board of Directors and
    presides over meetings. The Chair may also serve as an ex officio
    member without right to vote on all Board committees. The Chair,
    with the approval of the Board of Directors, may discharge one or
    more members of any Committee.

b.  Vice-chair. The Vice-chair shares with the Chair responsibility for
    the smooth running of the Organisation, and has a responsibility to
    bring to the attention of the Board of Directors any problems with
    the running of the Organisation.  In the temporary absence of the
    Chair, the Vice-chair shall preside over meetings and temporarily
    assume the responsibilities of the Chair.

c.  Treasurer.  The Treasurer shall assist in the development of the annual
    budget and the financial plan and shall assist in raising funds for
    the Corporation's operation.  The Treasurer is responsible for
    developing and reviewing fiscal procedures, and shall assist any
    committee in the preparation and administration of committee or
    project budgets.

d.  Secretary.  The Secretary is also the Chief Transparency Officer of
    the Organisation.  The Secretary shall maintain the FHISO Manual,
    agendas and minutes of Board and Member meetings, and such other
    records of the Corporation as required by Arizona Law, these bylaws,
    the Articles of Incorporation or FHISO Manual. 

e.  Technical Coordinator.  The Technical Coordinator serves as chair of
    the Technical Standing Committee, and has overall responsibility for
    FHISO's standardisation and specification work, and any other
    technical work being undertaken.

f.  Technical Co-coordinator.  The Technical Co-coordinator serves as
    Vice-chair of the Technical Standing Committee, assists the
    Technical Coordinator, and is responsible for ensuring records are
    maintained reporting the activities of the Technical Standing
    Committee and other technical work.  In the temporary absence of the
    Technical Coordinator, the Technical Co-coordinator shall chair
    meetings of the Technical Standing Committee and temporarily assume
    the responsibilities of the Technical Coordinator.

g.  [Deleted]

h.  [Deleted]

i.  Assistant Secretary.  The Assistant Secretary shall assist the
    Secretary and Treasurer in the execution of their duties, as
    directed by the Board of Directors.

### 8.3 Terms of Office

A Directly Elected Office is any Officer, Coordinator or Co-coordinator
position whose holder is elected to that specific position for a
two-year term by the Voting Members of FHISO in accordance with Article
15.  The Chair and Technical Coordinator are Directly Elected Offices.
The Board may designate any other Officer, Coordinator or Co-coordinator
position except that of Assistant Secretary as a Directly Elected
Office.

Except for the position of Assistant Secretary, any Officer, Coordinator
or Co-coordinator position which is a Directly Elected Office shall be
filled in accordance with Section 8.6 of these Bylaws.

An Assistant Secretary may be appointed by the Board.  The Assistant
Secretary is not required to be a Voting Member and does not become a
Director by virtue of being appointed Assistant Secretary.  The
Assistant Secretary has no fixed term of office and may be removed by
majority vote of the Board at any time without cause.  The position of
Assistant Secretary may be left vacant at the direction of the Board.

### 8.4 [Deleted]

### 8.5 Succession

If the position of Chair becomes vacant, the Vice-chair shall become
Chair and serve until the next Annual Board Election.  In the event that
the position of Vice-chair is also vacant, both positions shall be
filled according to Section 8.6 of these Bylaws.

If the position of Technical Coordinator becomes vacant, the Technical
Co-coordinator shall become Technical Coordinator and serve until the
next Annual Board Election.  In the event that the position of Technical
Co-coordinator is also vacant, both positions shall be filled according
to Section 8.6 of these Bylaws.

### 8.5.1 [Deleted]

### 8.6 Officer Vacancy

If the position of any Officer, Coordinator or Co-coordinator other than
the Assistant Secretary becomes vacant, and these Bylaws provide no
successor to the position, the vacancy shall be filled by the Board of
Directors from their number by majority vote.  Any person so elected has
no fixed term of office and may be removed by majority vote of the Board
at any time without cause.

A Director may hold more than one position, except that the positions of
Chair and Vice-Chair must be held by different people, as must the
positions of Technical Coordinator and Technical Co-Coordinator.

Article 9: Board of Directors
-----------------------------

### 9.1 General Powers and Duties

The governing body of FHISO shall be the Board of Directors ("Board").
The Board shall manage and control FHISO's affairs and property, it
shall establish member policies and set member dues and be responsible
for all other aspects of FHISO's policies and direction. The Board shall
exercise all powers and perform all duties that are necessary or
convenient to carry out FHISO's purposes, except as may be otherwise
provided it in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act or the Articles of
Incorporation.

### 9.2 Composition

The composition of the Board shall, in so far as possible, reflect
FHISO's international scope and purpose including that it shall be
representative of the varied stakeholder interests and provide required
technical, standardisation and project management expertise.

### 9.3 Size and Constituency

The Board shall consist of no fewer than three Directors.  The maximum
number of Directors shall be determined by a two-thirds vote of the Board
or by a majority vote of Voting Members at a Business Meeting.  
A vote to reduce the size of the Board shall not have the effect of
removing any Director from the Board, and Board may exceed its
determined size until the number of Directors is reduced by elections,
resignations or removals.

A person elected to a Directly Elected Office shall be a Director by
virtue being elected to a Directly Elected Office.  A Director who
was not elected to a Directly Elected Office is called a Director at
Large.  Directors at Large are elected to a position on the Board by the
Voting Members, and may be assigned a specific position by majority vote
of the Board.

### 9.4 [Deleted]

### 9.5 Resignation and Removal

A Director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chair.
A Director may be removed for cause by a two-thirds vote of the Board,
or by a majority vote of Voting Members at a Business Meeting.

Any Officer, Coordinator or Co-coordinator who resigns or is removed
from the Board of Director immediately ceases being an Officer,
Coordinator or Co-coordinator.

### 9.6 [Deleted]

### 9.7 Board Member Compensation

The members of the Board shall receive no compensation for serving as
Directors of the Organisation.

### 9.8 Regular Board Meetings

The Board shall hold regular meetings at least quarterly, to be called
as agreed at previous Board Meetings.

### 9.9 Special Board Meetings

A special meeting of the Board may be called by the Chair, the
Vice-chair, or a number of directors, which may include directors on
sabbatical, equal to half the quorum needed for board business.  At
least two days' notice shall be given.

### 9.10 Conduct of Meetings

Meetings shall be conducted in accordance with Article 17.

Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by the Chair,
or, in the absence of the Chair, by the Vice-Chair, or in the absence of
these officers, by a Chairperson chosen by a majority of the voting
Board members in attendance.

### 9.11 Quorum of the Board

Three-fifths of those voting members of the Board who are not taking a
sabbatical shall constitute a quorum for transacting business at any
meeting, except that if a quorum is not present at a meeting, a majority
of the voting Board members present may adjourn the meeting to another
time without notice.

### 9.12 Majority Vote

Except as otherwise provided by law, the Articles of Incorporation or
these Bylaws, all matters before the Board of Directors shall be decided
by a majority vote of the Board members present and voting at a meeting
at which a quorum exists.  All Directors shall have an equal vote.

### 9.13 Board Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting

Any action which may be taken by majority vote at a Board Meeting may be
taken without a meeting provided that:

a.  a written proposal is made available to all Board members;
b.  written consent is received from sufficient Board members to
    constitute a quorum; and
c.  no request is made under Section 9.9 of these Bylaws to hold a Board
    Meeting to discuss the proposed action.

### 9.14 Attendance

Board Members are expected to attend meetings of the Board of Directors.
Any Director who is absent from three consecutive regular meetings of
the Board shall be deemed to be on sabbatical unless the Board
determines otherwise, and may give cause for removal under Section 9.5
of these Bylaws.

### 9.15 Sabbaticals

A Director wishing to take a break from FHISO may ask the Board for
permission to take a sabbatical.  Sabbaticals must be approved by
majority vote of the Board and may be subject to a time limit.  If
approved or as provided in Section 9.14 of these Bylaws, the Director
shall be considered on sabbatical until the expiry of any time limit
applied to the sabbatical or until written notice of the Director's
return is given to the Chair.  

A Director on sabbatical shall be deemed temporarily absent for purpose
of Section 8.2 of these Bylaws, and any duties not otherwise reassigned
by these Bylaws may be reassigned amongst the Board for the duration of
the sabbatical as the Board sees fit.  A Director on sabbatical may
participate in all Board activities and retains full voting rights, but
is not counted when determining the quorum for Board Meetings.

### 9.16 Appointed Directors

If the Board is smaller than the maximum size as determined in Section
9.3 of these Bylaws, the Board may appoint a new Director to the Board,
providing that by doing so the number of appointed Directors on the
Board does not equal or exceed the number elected by the Voting Members
in accordance with Article 15.  This limit on the proportion of
appointed Directors on the Board is waived if the Board drops below the
minimum size specified in Section 9.3 of these Bylaws.

Any person appointed to the Board must meet the qualifications in
Section 15.2 of these Bylaws, and must either retire or stand for
re-election at the next Annual Board Election.

Article 9A: Budget
------------------

The Treasurer is responsible for developing and reviewing the annual
budget.  FHISO's budget requires Board approval, and only expenditures
within the approved budget may be authorised for payment.

The fiscal year shall be the calendar year.

Article 9B: The FHISO Manual
----------------------------

The Secretary is responsible for maintaining the FHISO Manual,
containing the various policies and governance documents approved and
published by the Board.

Article 10: Committees
----------------------

There shall be one Standing Committee &mdash; the Technical Standing
Committee. The Board may create other committees as appropriate to meet
FHISO's goals. All committees shall keep regular minutes of meetings and
report the same to the Board in accordance with the FHISO Manual. Any
reference to a committee that no longer exists shall be interpreted as
referring to the Board of Directors.

### 10.1 [Deleted]

### 10.2 FHISO Technical Standing Committee

The Technical Standing Committee (TSC) is responsible for coordinating
work towards FHISO's technical goals.

The committee

a.  determines the overall strategy for technical work, which is
    reviewed by the Board and made available to the general membership;
b.  determines the requirements for all technical work, including the
    scope of work, expected deliverables, time and resource
    requirements; and
c.  determines technical priorities unless the Board determines
    otherwise, either on their own or following an appeal from members
    per Article 18.

Additional roles of the Technical Standing Committee are documented
in the Technical Standing Committee Charter, including

d.  defining of technical processes and policies;
e.  overseeing all technical work;
f.  assigning technical leadership roles to FHISO members as
    appropriate;
g.  defining which roles provide Technical Standing Committee membership
    beyond those outlined in these by-laws; and 
h.  recommending proposed standards for ratification under Article 10A.

The Technical Standing Committee Charter is subject to approval by the
Board.

There shall be no fewer than two officers of the Technical Standing
Committee; their titles and duties are set forth below. The Board may
appoint and/or remove additional members to the TSC in order to ensure
sufficient expertise or regional diversity. These are known as TSC
Special Members. The Technical Standing Committee reports to the Board.

#### 10.2.1–2 [Deleted]

### 10.3–4 [Deleted]

### 10.5 Other Board Committee Formation

The Board may create or dissolve other committees ("Board Committees")
as needed, such as fundraising, public relations, etc. At the direction
of the Chair, the functions, scope, and responsibilities of a Board
Committee, together with rules for operation and guidance (collectively,
"Committee Charter"), shall be developed. The approved Committee
Charters are filed with the Secretary, and become part of the FHISO
Manual.

Article 10A: Standards
----------------------

At the recommendation of the Technical Standing Committee, each
recommended standard shall be made available to the general public and
its recommended status shall be announced to the FHISO membership and
the general public.

A recommended standard does not become a standard until approved by a
vote of FHISO's Voting Members. These votes are administered by
the Board in accordance with policies on who may vote given in Articles
4 and 5; the Board may optionally produce an additional Vote
Administration Policy to clarify the voting process. The vote should be
scheduled no less than 60 days after the recommended policy's
recommended status was announced to the FHISO membership and no more
than 365 days after it became a recommended standard.

If the recommended standard passes by a simple majority of the votes
cast, it shall become a full standard and be returned to the Technical
Standing Committee to be published and maintained, following the process
outlined in the Technical Standing Committee Charter. If it does not
pass by a simple majority it shall be identified as a “rejected standard
proposal” and published along with the results of the vote.

Ratified standards shall be made available to all at no cost from
FHISO's website. Any person, organisation or company may implement FHISO
standards for any purpose, without royalty or license fees.

Articles 11–13: [Deleted]
-------------------------

Article 13A: Annual and Special Board Elections
-----------------------------------------------

### 13A.1 Annual Board Elections

FHISO shall hold an Annual Board Election before each Annual General
Meeting so that Voting Members may elect Directors to serve on the
Board.  Any Director who was not elected at the previous Annual Board
Election or at a subsequent Special Board Meeting must either retire
or stand for re-election.

The total number of Directors to be elected at an Annual Board Election
shall be the maximum size of the Board at that time, as determined in
accordance with Section 9.3 of these Bylaws, less the number of
Directors who are continuing on the Board without needing to be
re-elected.

Additionally, the minimum number of places of the Board being elected at
any Annual Board Election shall be one less than half the maximum size
of the Board at that time. This may necessitate putting the place of one
or more Directors whose terms have not expired on the ballot, causing
those Directors to stand for early re-election. Directors to stand for
early re-election shall be determined by first seeking volunteers from
among the Directors. If more Directors volunteer than are needed, the
Board shall select from among the volunteers. If fewer Directors
volunteer than are needed, additional Directors shall be selected
randomly from among those of the remaining Directors at Large, and if
that fails to produce sufficient places, then from among all other
Directors. 

The results of an Annual Board Election shall be announced to Voting
Members at the Annual General Meeting.  If an Annual Board Election
results in a new Chair being elected, the incoming and outgoing Chairs
may by mutual agreement allow the outgoing Chair to continue presiding
over the Annual General Meeting.

### 13A.2 Special Board Elections

A Special Board Election to fill the vacancies on the Board may be
called by a two-thirds vote of the Board, or by a majority vote of
Voting Members at a Business Meeting.

A motion by Voting Members to call a Special Board Election may nominate
up to two Voting Members who will, subject to them consenting, serve on
the Nominating Committee alongside those eligible Directors.  If the
motion passes, the Board shall constitute a Nominating Committee which
shall instigate a Call for Nominations within 7 days of the motion
passing.

The total number of Directors to be elected at a Special Board Election
shall be the maximum size of the Board at that time, as determined in
accordance with Section 9.3 of these Bylaws, less the number of
Directors at the time of the election.

Article 14: Nominating Committee
--------------------------------

When the Board sets a date for an Annual or Special Board Election, a
Nominating Committee is formed to oversee the process and ensure it is
conducted in an unbiased manner in accordance with these Bylaws.  The
Nominating Committee consists of any Director who consents to serve on
it, and who is either continuing on the Board without needing to be
re-elected or has decided not to seek re-election.  In addition, any
Voting Members appointed under Section 13A.2 of these Bylaws shall serve
on the Nominating Committee.  If this would result in a Nominating
Committee with fewer than two members, the Board shall appoint further
consenting Voting Members to the Nominating Committee to bring its
membership up to two.  Members of the Nominating Committee are not
permitted to stand in any election they are overseeing, but may vote in
them.

Article 15: Nomination and Election of Directors
------------------------------------------------

### 15.1 Call for Nominations

The Nominating Committee shall secure proposals for nominations for
the Board by preparing a Call for Nominations and distributing it
to all Voting Members.  The Call for Nomination shall identify each
Directly Elected Office being elected and the duties of the position.
It shall also identify the number of Directors at Large being elected,
which shall be the total number of Directors being elected less the
number being elected to Directly Elected Offices.  The Call for
Nominations shall contain all information necessary for Voting Members
to nominate candidates, and shall state when the Call for Nominations
closes which shall be no less than 14 days after the distribution of the
Call for Nominations.

The Nominating Committee may make additional Calls for Nominations if in
their judgement this is necessary to get a full roster of eligible
candidates.  Additional Calls for Nominations shall also state when they
close, but need not run for 14 days.

Any vote to change the maximum size of the Board shall not affect an
election once the initial Call for Nominations has been issued.

### 15.2 Qualifications for Directors

Members being nominated to serve on the Board of Directors shall (a) be
a Voting Member of FHISO; (b) have consented to their name being entered
into candidacy; and (c) commit to both time and resources demands
required for the duration of the term. 

Nominations must be submitted in a timely fashion and should be
accompanied by brief biographical information on the candidate to be
included in the ballot.  Nominations shall only be made by Voting
Members.  A person may nominate themself.  A person may not
simultaneously stand for election to more than one Directly Elected
Office, but may stand for election to a Directly Elected Office and as a
Director at Large.

### 15.3 [Deleted]

### 15.4 Designation of Nominees and Preparation of Ballots

The Nominating Committee shall produce a ballot for each Directly
Elected Office being elected, and a single ballot for all Directors at
Large.  All candidates who have been properly nominated and who are
eligible per Section 15.2 of these Bylaws shall be included on the
ballot.

Each ballot shall indicate the number of Directors being elected from
that ballot.  If the number of candidates on a ballot is less than or
equal to the number of Directors being elected from that ballot, the
Nominating Committee shall declare those candidates elected without
holding an election for that ballot.

The ballots shall also include a statement encouraging members to
consider both individual qualifications for the position and increasing
the diversity of the Board.

### 15.4A Permitted Voting Systems

The Nominating Committee shall determine which of the Permitted Voting
Systems will be used in each election, and shall include this information
clearly on the ballot.

The "instant runoff" system is a Permitted Voting Systems for the
election to a Directly Elected Office, or for election as a Director at
Large when only a single Director at Large is being elected.  The
"single transferable vote" system is a Permitted Voting System for the
election of multiple Directors at Large.  Other Permitted Voting Systems
may be approved by majority vote of the Voting Members prior to the
ballot being distributed.

### 15.5 Election Schedule

The Nominating Committee shall deliver ballots to every FHISO Voting
Member at least 14 days prior to the close of voting.  Voting shall
remain open for 14 day.  The Nominating Committee shall also
provide for and oversee whatever electronic balloting procedures are
required for the voting.

### 15.6 Election to Office

For each Directly Elected Office, the winning candidate under the
specified voting system shall be elected.  If the winning candidate was
also a candidate as a Directors at Large, they shall be disqualified
from the ballot for Directors at Large.  Once all the ballots for
Directly Elected Offices have been counted, the ballots for Directors at
Large shall be counted, and the appropriate number of winning candidates
under the specified voting system shall be elected.

There is no minimum number of votes which needs to be cast for the
election to be valid.  The Nominating Committee shall tabulate the
votes, determine the results and promptly notify the nominees of the
election results.  The results of the election shall then be announced
to Voting Members, and shall take effect immediately after being
announced.

### 15.7 Tie Vote

In the case of a tie vote, the FHISO Board shall break the tie by
majority vote.

Article 16: General Membership Meetings
---------------------------------------

### 16.1 Business Meetings

The Voting Members, when gathered electronically for the purpose of
transacting business of the Corporation, shall constitute a Business
Meeting of the Corporation.  At least one such Business Meeting, which
shall constitute the Annual General Meeting, will be called by the Board
of Directors each fiscal year, at a time and date determined by the
Board.  

#### 16.1.1 Notice of Business Meetings

Written notice of the Annual General Meeting shall be provided to Voting
Members at least 42 days prior to the meeting.   Written notice of all
other Business Meetings shall be provided to Voting Members at least 30
days prior to the meeting.

The Secretary shall make all agendas, proposals, exhibits and any
prepared remarks (collectively, the "Business Meeting Materials")
available to members at least 14 days prior to the meeting and
shall make arrangement for members to attend by electronic connection.

#### 16.1.2 Quorum for Business Meeting

Five Voting Members or 5% of the FHISO's Voting Members, whichever is
greater, shall constitute a quorum for a Business Meeting.

A Business Meeting may be conducted without a quorum being present, but
no binding vote may be taken.

#### 16.1.3 Majority Vote

All matters to be voted on by Voting Members at a Business Meeting shall
be voted on electronically following opportunity for discussion at the
Business Meeting.  Voting shall begin within three days of the start of
the Business Meeting, and the Secretary shall deliver a ballot to every
Voting Member before the start of voting.  If the proposer of the motion
provided any accompanying material explaining the proposal, the
Secretary shall circulate this alongside the ballot.  The Secretary may
also circulate additional explanatory material, opinions or statements
with the ballot.

Voting shall remain open for 14 days, after which the Secretary shall
count the votes and notify all Voting Members of the outcome within
three days of the end of voting.  Unless the motion states otherwise,
the motion shall come into effect when the Secretary announces it has
passed.  A vote conducted in this manner is deemed to have occurred at a
Business Meeting.

The vote shall be conducted in a manner that allows abstentions to be
recorded, as well as votes in favour or against the motion.  The motion
shall pass if there are more votes in favour of the motion than against,
and the total number of votes cast, including abstentions, is sufficient
to constitute a quorum for a Business Meeting.

### 16.2 Special Membership Meetings

Business Meetings other than the Annual General Meeting are known as
Special Membership Meetings and may be called by the Chair, by majority
vote of the Board of Directors, or by a petition of twenty percent of
the Voting Members submitted in writing to the Secretary.

In the case of Special Membership Meetings proposed by petition of the
Voting Members, the Secretary shall give written notice of the Special
Membership Meeting to the Voting Members within 14 days of receiving the
petition, with the Special Membership Meeting to be held on a date and
at a time determined by the Board within 45 days of receiving the
petition.

### 16.3 Notice of Motions

Advanced notice must be given to the Secretary of all matters that are
to be put to a vote at a Business Meeting.  This must be received within
14 days of written notice of the Business Meeting given under Section
16.1.1 of these Bylaws unless that notice allowed a longer period for
motions.  Details of all motions received shall be included in the
Business Meeting Materials.

### 16.4 Amendment of Motions

The proposer of a motion to be voted on at a Business Meeting may amend
the proposal as a result of discussion at the Business Meeting providing
it does not substantially change the purpose of the proposal.  Any such
amendment must be notified to the Secretary within 24 hours of the start
of the Business Meeting.  The Chair's ruling on whether an amendment
substantially changes the purpose of the proposal is final.

### 16.5 Delegation of Secretary's Duties

The duties of the Secretary described in this Article of the Bylaws may
be delegated to another person by the Secretary or by two-thirds vote of
the Board.

Article 17: Conduct of Meetings
-------------------------------

### 17.1 Meeting Accessibility

Meetings shall be conducted in a manner accessible to those not present
in the same physical location, for example by phone or other electronic
communication. A reasonable effort should be made to facilitate
participation from all regions.

### 17.2 Notice of Meetings

Reasonable advance notice of meetings shall be given to intended
participants in an appropriate form.

### 17.3 Meeting Materials

A reasonable effort shall be made to ensure that any agendas, proposals,
reports, or other meeting materials are available to intended
participants in an appropriate form and sufficiently in advance of the
start of the meeting.

### 17.4 Meeting Minutes

Minutes shall be taken during the non-executive session of all meetings,
and shall be made accessible to the general membership.

### 17.5 Chairing Meetings

The person chairing the meeting (the "Meeting Chair") shall be
responsible for:

a.  managing the use of time during the meeting;
b.  making a reasonable effort to ensure that any agenda is followed;
c.  providing all participants in the meeting have an equal opportunity
    to share their views to the degree the meeting schedule permits; and
d.  ensuring that all participants adhere to the Code of Conduct.

In balancing these objectives, the Meeting Chair may encourage some
participants to be more succinct in their remarks, impose time limits on
comments, or limit the number of people called on to speak.  In doing
so, the Meeting Chair must ensure that no particular point of view is
unfairly favoured or disadvantaged.  If necessary, the Meeting Chair may
have participants who violate the Code of Conduct removed from the
meeting.

Article 18: Appeals of Decisions
--------------------------------

Appeals of decisions made by individuals, committees, teams,
or groups acting as part of FHISO shall be governed by the FHISO Appeals
Process Policy as determined by the Board of Directors and set forth in
the FHISO Manual.

Article 19: [Deleted]
---------------------

Article 20: Construction
------------------------

Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of
construction, and definitions in the Arizona Nonprofit Corporation Act
shall govern the construction of these Bylaws. Without limiting the
generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural,
the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes
both a corporation and a natural person.

Article 20A: Special Resolutions
--------------------------------

Certain major changes to FHISO's governance, as specified in these
Bylaws, are made by means of a Special Resolution in the following
manner.  A Special Resolution may be proposed by a majority vote of the
Board, or by a petition of twenty percent of the Voting Members
submitted in writing to the Secretary.

### 20A.1 Governance Review Committee

Within 14 days of receiving the proposal, the Secretary may convene a
Governance Review Committee consisting of the Directors and chaired by
the Secretary.  In the case of Special Resolutions proposed by petition
of the Voting Members, the petitioners may appoint up to three of their
number to represent them on the Governance Review Committee.

The Governance Review Committee shall meet as required to review the
proposed Special Resolution, may obtain advice on the proposed Special
Resolution, and shall within 30 days of being convened produce a written
statement of its finding on the proposed Special Resolution, after which
it shall disband.  This statement may include a recommendation on
whether it be accepted.

### 20A.2 Special Resolution Ballot

The Secretary shall produce a ballot containing the text of the Special
Resolution, together with any explanatory material provided by the
proposers.  If no Governance Review Committee was convened, the ballot
shall be circulated to all Voting Members within 14 days of receiving
the proposal; otherwise it shall be circulated alongside the Governance
Review Committee's statement within seven days of the Governance Review
Committee dispanding.

Voting on the Special Resolution shall be by electronic ballot which
shall remain open for 14 days.  The Special Resolution shall pass if
either (a) at least two-thirds of the votes cast are in favour of the
Special Resolution, and the total number of votes cast is sufficient to
constitute a quorum for a Business Meeting per Section 16.1.2 of these
Bylaws; or (b) if more than half of all Voting Members vote in favour
of it.

Article 21: Dissolution
-----------------------

### 21.1 Action of Board and Members

FHISO may only be dissolved by a Special Resolution which shall include
a Plan of Dissolution.  If the Special Resolution passes, the Board
shall carry out the Plan of Dissolution and dissolve FHISO.

### 21.2 Plan of Dissolution

The Plan of Dissolution shall include provisions to implement the
following in the priority set forth below:

a.  Payment and discharge of all liabilities and obligations
b.  Compliance with all conditions of any applicable tax exemptions
c.  Return, transfer, or conveyance of all assets received and held upon
    condition that the assets be returned, transferred, or conveyed upon
    dissolution
d.  Transfer or conveyance of all assets received and held subject to
    limitations on their permitted use, but not held upon condition set
    forth in item c, above, to one or more organisations engaged in
    activities substantially similar to those of the Organisation
e.  Liquidation of all remaining assets with all proceeds being donated
    to one or more foundations engaged in furthering the use of
    standards in genealogy and family history and/or promoting genealogy
    and family history information technology interoperability.

Article 22: Revising the Bylaws and/or Articles of Incorporation
----------------------------------------------------------------

### 22.1 Revisions to the Bylaws

Except as allowed elsewhere in these Bylaws, the Bylaws may only be
amended by a Special Resolution.  The amendment shall be effective as of
the date the Special Resolution is passed, or at such later date as
provided in the Special Resolution itself.

### 22.2 Trivial Corrections to the Bylaws

Typographical errors or errors of omission, consistency or terminology
use shall be corrected, by or with the concurrence of the Secretary,
without recourse to a ballot of the membership.

### 22.3 Revisions to the Articles of Incorporation

The Articles of Incorporation may only be amended by a Special
Resolution.  The amendment shall be effective as of the earliest date so
permitted by the laws of the State of Arizona.

Article 23: Severability
------------------------

If any provision of these Bylaws is held to be invalid or unenforceable
for any reason, the remaining provisions shall remain in full force and
effect.

Article 24: Extended Organisational Period
------------------------------------------

The initial period of operation of the FHISO shall be known as the
"Extended Organisational Period".

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Technical Standing
Committee will establish full functionality, and the Organisation's
Membership will become populated, balanced and diversified as to
multi-stakeholder interests and regional diversity. Once the Board has
determined by majority vote that these objectives have been achieved,
they will publicly announce that decision; said public announcement
shall be deemed to terminate the Extended Organisational Period and
Article 24 shall be stricken from the bylaws.

During the Extended Organisational Period, the Board may, as necessary,
amend the Bylaws to fully support organisational requirements by
majority vote of the Board without requiring a Special Resolution.  

Proposed standards shall not be ratified as official FHISO standards
during the Extended Organisational Period.
