---
title: Annual Report to Members for 2019
date: 5 March 2020
...

Annual Report to Members for 2019
=================================

In 2019, FHISO exited its extended organisational period. Originally organized
with bylaws and internal structures which assumed a large number of active
members, FHISO leadership quickly realized that they had mistaken expressions
of support for the mission of FHISO for expressions of support in the work of
FHISO and that the structure needed to be scaled back to match a smaller core
group of contributing participants. That period of scaling back and
reorganising was called the extended organisational period, during which the
board had authority to appoint (rather than elect) its membership and to change
the bylaws without full membership approval. During this time the FHISO board
chose not to request annual membership renewals, instead funding FHISO
activities primarily through the voluntary donations of a small number of its
members.

Exiting the extended organisational period was always our goal to make FHISOâ€™s
governance more democratic and less board-centered, but it involved a variety
of steps, some of which were undertaken in previous years. In 2019, we

* Completed revisions to our bylaws to permit a flexible board size and to
  define the process for conducting elections; see <https://fhiso.org/by-laws>.

* Solicited membership renewals to transition from donor-supported to full
  member-owned operation.

* Requested nominations for board positions in preparation for our first
  election of the FHISO board. As the number of nominations was equal to the
  number of board positions, per our bylaws we declared all nominees elected
  without a vote.

* Held our first Annual General Meeting (via online video conferencing
  software) to introduce the new board, report on FHISO activity, and field
  questions and suggestions from the membership.

* Resolved various legal status concerns that had been left unfinished during
  FHISO's organisation and obtained recognition of 501(c)(3) non-profit
  tax-exempt status in accordance with United States law.a

* Removed the articles from the bylaws which had granted extended
  organisational status.

FHISO also made some progress on the technical aspects of its mission as well.

Our ongoing work on the Extended Legacy Format, an extensible standard with
full backwards compatibility to GEDCOM 5.5.1, was moved forward by a
recognition of the benefits of some internal redesign; we did not release a new
public draft in 2019, but anticipate doing so in 2020.

We also worked with representatives of FamilySearch Inc. and the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints to help secure the public release of GEDCOM
5.5.1. Released as a review draft on 2 October 1999, it was accompanied by a
copyright restriction including the clause "It must not be used for programming
of genealogical software while in draft." As we were intending to release a
compatible standard, and in interest of getting legal permission from the
owners of the standard for the many existing software products that implemented
this draft, we requested either explicit permission to have software implement
the draft or a removal of draft status, and obtained the latter goal on 15
November 2019. See <http://gedcom.info> for the non-draft release.

FHISO also established several other contacts with family history software
providers and related organisations, which we are optimistic will yield results
we can announce in the coming year.

In 2020, we look forward to our second board elections, second annual general
meeting, and to the release of public drafts of the standards our technical
working group are drafting. Thank you all for your support and membership as we
work together toward to bring together individuals, organisations and companies
of all sizes to collaborate on open standards, supporting documentation and
services on the digital representation, processing and exchange of data by
genealogists and family historians worldwide.

